  | Kanji | Meanings | Pronunciations | Radicals | Mnemonic 
# | 上 | Above, Up, Over | じょう ; うえ, あ, のぼ, うわ, かみ | Toe + Ground | You find a toe on the ground. It's weird, because it's above the ground, not where toes belong. Focus your imagination on how body parts should be buried, not above ground like this. Sure, finding a toe is a little strange, but finding a toe above the ground? Downright silly. Of course when you find a toe above the ground, you want to know where the toe came from. When you examine it, you see a name written on there. This toe belongs to the local clumsy farmhand, Joe (じょう). Try to remember Joe, the local farmhand. He is a recurring character that will come up anytime the reading for a kanji is じょう. He is a very big man, and he wears farmer's clothes. It's important to imagine your version of Joe as very big, because it will help us to differentiate him from Jo-Anne, who is the character associated with the similar, but shorter reading (and character) じょ. Although Joe will develop as you go through all the じょう reading kanji, for now, just imagine him as a big, kinda slow dude, who works for a local farmer. Also, he only has nine or fewer toes, apparently.
# | 下 | Below, Down, Under, Beneath | か, げ ; した, さ, くだ, お, しも, もと | Ground + Toe | There's a toe below ground. So, where is the toe now? It's below ground. Imagine yourself digging it out, and thinking... ugh, why does it have to be below ground like this? So irritating. Will I be able to sew it back on in time to save it? You keep digging for the toe below the ground, and instead of hitting a toe you hit something hard and metallic. You keep digging and digging around it, but it's huge. Turns out, you found yourself a car (か). Keep digging until you unearth the car. Inside, you find the toe you were looking for. There's another useful on'yomi reading that just isn't useful enough for you to learn now. That reading is げ, but we're only going to worry about that much, much later when you have to learn one or two vocab words that read 下 as げ. That's the problem with really common kanji - too many readings.
# | 大 | Big, Large | たい, だい ; おお; ひろ | Big | The big radical and the big kanji are exactly the same! So, if you know the radical, you know the meaning of this kanji as well. There's this big guy (that's how you remember the radical, remember?), and he's wearing a huge Tie Dye (たい, だい) shirt. Because he's so huge, the tie dye shirt is also super huge. Everything about him is pretty big, but the tie dye stands out more than anything. When you look at the big guy in your head, imagine him covered in tie dye head to toe. Think about how ridiculous it looks on him, especially since he's such a big guy. Shirt. Sweatpants. Hat. Shoes... it goes on and on.
# | 工 | Construction, Industry | こう, く | Construction | The construction radical and the construction kanji are the same! This kanji also means industry, which is what construction is, if you think about it. It's all part of the construction industry. Know your radicals and you'll know this kanji's meaning. For kanji that use the こう (there are a lot of them!) we will use the character こういち every time. He's one of the people who started this website, so we'll do our best in the mnemonics to embarrass him as much as possible. Anyways, remember that whenever you see こう, think こういち. You see some construction in front of you. There, standing shirtless (only a suspender and hard hat) is (こういち), looking back at you. If こういち as a construction worker standing in a construction site some how doesn't make your legs tremble, that's okay and totally normal. Do make sure you take this story to a ridiculous enough level to hook a memory into that brain of yours. Be mad at him for not following construction site regulations (where's his shirt, shoes, and pants!?). Why is he using that bulldozer like that? Alternatively, say you really do like what you see (you're going to have to imagine a much better looking version of こういち's actual face, though). You and こういち make eye contact a little too long. He nods, puts his cigarette out, and takes off his hard hat, letting his long Fabio-esque locks flow. You beckon him over and he comes. What happens next is up to you and your own imagination. My guess is you have a very deep conversation about kanji and the best ways to learn it. Hint: When you see 工 in a kanji it will often take the こう reading. Remember that, because it comes up quite a bit!
*** | 八 | Eight | はち ; や, よう | Fins | This isn't exactly the same as the fins radical, but it's close. Sometimes this will happen (where we have to use a slightly "modified radical" version of the original), so it's good to understand that now, early on. In this case, we have fins. How many fins? Eight fins. How do you know that? Because you caught four fish with two fins each. Count the fins out in front of you, all the way from one to eight. It'll help if you actually do this. Now smell each fin, and think "Wow, I have to smell all eight of these?" Yes, you do. After you count and smell all eight of your fins, it's time to put them away. You open a large hatch (はち) and put them in. This is where you keep your fins, always putting in eight at a time because that's what the boss wants. You've asked him why you can only put eight fins at a time in the hatch, but he never wants to answer. What could be down in the hole that the hatch covers? Why is there a hatch at all? What's with numbers and hatches being mysterious?
# | 入 | Enter | にゅう ; はい, い | Enter | The kanji and the radical are the same, so remembering the meaning of this kanji is as simple as making sure you know the radical for enter first! If you know the radical, you know this kanji means enter as well. Make sure you know those radicals, yo! Turns out, after you enter the teepee (you'll remember that the radical is a teepee with a big entrance to it), you're given a new (にゅう) one! Now you have two teepees! Imagine lights turning on and flashing, and an entire audience inside. You're at a gameshow, and the announcer announces the neeeeew teepee in his announcey voice. Feel the surprise. Feel the happiness. Feel the excitement. A beautiful new teepee all for you!
*** | 山 | Mountain | さん ; やま | Mountain | The mountain radical and the mountain kanji are the same. Make sure you're studying your radicals. If you are, then you're studying your kanji as well! Think about mountains talking to each other, calling each other by their names and adding the Japanese name-ender san (さん) to each of their names. "Hello, Everest-san." "Oh hi, Fuji-san." Be sure to imagine this vividly. The more absurdly you can imagine it, the more likely you are to remember the reading, san.
*** | 口 | Mouth | こう, く ; くち | Mouth | The mouth radical and the mouth kanji are exactly the same! If you learned your radicals–which the WaniKani system forces you to do (unless you're cheating)–you'll already know the meaning of the kanji. Do you remember seeing the construction worker こういち earlier in the 工 mnemonic? If you haven't yet, not to worry! For kanji with こう readings (there are a lot of them!) we will use the character こういち every time. He's one of the people who started this website, so we'll do our best in the mnemonics to embarrass him as much as possible. Anyways, remember that whenever you see こう, think こういち. Everyone agrees, (こういち)'s mouth is his best feature. You stare at it lovingly as he whispers sweet kanji readings to you. You just can't forget all the cool things about kanji learning he said from that mouth. What a great mouth こういち has. How are the lips of his mouth both so skinny and fat at the same time?
*** | 九 | Nine | く, きゅう ; ここの | Nine | Nice! This kanji is the same as the radical that looks just like it (down to the meaning, even!). The radical is nine and the kanji is nine, making the meaning of this kanji really easy to remember as long as you know the radical first. If you know your radicals well, this kanji will be a breeze! Although this kanji has two on'yomi to learn, the pronunciations of those two on'yomi are very similar, so that should make them easier to remember. When you were nine your favorite foods were cookies (く) and cucumbers (きゅう). Yum yum! Picture nine-year-old you, lining up nine cookies and nine cucumbers. You dip a cookie in milk and bite into it, then dip a cucumber in and take a bite. Nine bites each until they're all gone. Ah, you miss being nine.
*** | 一 | One | いち, いつ ; ひと; かず | Ground | Lying on the ground is something that looks just like the ground, the number One. Why is this One lying down? It's been shot by the number two. It's lying there, bleeding out and dying. The number One doesn't have long to live. To remember the meaning of One, imagine yourself there at the scene of the crime. You grab One in your arms, trying to prop it up, trying to hear its last words. Instead, it just splatters some blood on your face. "Who did this to you?" you ask. The number One points weakly, and you see number Two running off into an alleyway. He's always been jealous of number One and knows he can be number one now that he's taken the real number one out. As you're sitting there next to One, holding him up, you start feeling a weird sensation all over your skin. From the wound comes a fine powder (obviously coming from the special bullet used to kill One) that causes the person it touches to get extremely itchy (いち). Make sure you feel the ridiculously itchy sensation covering your body. It climbs from your hands, where you're holding the number One up, and then goes through your arms, crawls up your neck, goes down your body, and then covers everything. It becomes uncontrollable, and you're scratching everywhere, writhing on the ground. It's so itchy that it's the most painful thing you've ever experienced (you should imagine this vividly, so you remember the reading of this kanji).
*** | 人 | Person | にん, じん ; ひと, と | Person | Remember how the radical version of this kanji meant person because it's a person walking from the side with their arms down? Well this is a person too! Know the radicals, and you shall know the kanji. Only one person at Nintendo (にん) complained about the new jeans (じん) policy, and that person was you. Imagine how angry you were about the policy. You'll have to come up with something to be angry about yourself (pick something that would actually make you angry, like maybe you're only allowed to wear cut off short-shorts jeans at Nintendo now), but if you pick something good, you'll definitely remember the two readings for this. Just remember you're working at Nintendo, and the policy has to be something about jeans. Then, imagine yourself as the only person complaining and everyone else in their dumb jeans (or lack-thereof) shaking their head at you because you're being a fool.
# | 力 | Power, Strength, Ability | りょく, りき ; ちから | Power | The radical and the meaning of this kanji are the same. Both are power. If you know the radicals, you should be feeling fine... No, you should feel powerful! Who has the most power of anyone? It's the Power Rangers. They are battling their arch enemy Ricky (りき). They defeat him and lock (りょく) him up, so that he can't hurt anyone ever again. Know anyone named Ricky (りき), even a famous person like Ricky Ricardo or Ricky Gervais? Imagine that person's face on the monster the Power Rangers are fighting. Now, imagine the Power Rangers locking (りょく) him up. He looks much less scary once he's locked up. Phew.
# | 川 | River | かわ ; せん | River | The river radical and the river kanji are the same as each other! So, if you know the radical you know the kanji as well. You're standing next to a river that's actually used as a car wash (かわ). Imagine standing by the river, watching all those cars floating by. They start off really dirty, but the river washes them all clean.
*** | 七 | Seven | しち ; なな, なの | Seven | Lucky for you (as is the case with many of the lower-stroke kanji), this kanji is the same as the radical you've already learned. The radical that makes up this kanji is seven and the kanji (which is exactly the same) is also seven. So, if you know the radical, you know the meaning of the kanji as well. Make sure you know your radicals well and you'll be A-Okay on this one! You know this kanji means Seven, so let's use that to remember the reading too. Seven is a lucky number, usually, but this time it wasn't so good. Seven percent is all she got on her test after she cheated (しち) on it. How unbelievable is it that someone got seven percent on a test, especially if you try to cheat? Imagine the girl you loathe the most from school, and imagine her cheating on the test (it's important it's a girl, because of the "she" part in she cheated (しち). Then, imagine your happiness when she's super upset about getting seven percent on it. Serves her right, obviously.
*** | 十 | Ten | じゅう ; とお | Cross | This cross is the symbol for the number ten. A good way to remember this is to think about all the religions that have crosses and also important sets of tens. If you're familiar with Christianity, they have a cross and ten commandments. Cross = ten, you see? This cross in particular has ten jewels (じゅう) on it. Two on each arm and two in the middle. That's ten jewels! Picture the jewels on this cross. Maybe draw it out on a piece of paper so the visual really sticks. Each cross is really a symbol for different sets of ten things, and in this case, it's ten jewels.
*** | 三 | Three | さん ; み | Ground + Two | This kanji is made up of the ground radical (which also happens to be the kanji for "one") and the radical for two. Combine one and two together and what do you get? Three! This one should be pretty self explanatory! Even easier, you can look at this kanji and see it has three straight lines. You know what one looks like. You know what two looks like. So... this is three! Three is the number of chances you get with Santa-san (さん). He has a list, and when you get to three "naughty things" lines, that's it. You're on Santa-san's three strikes and you're out list. Picture Santa-san sitting at his desk at the North Pole, eating cookies, and marking one, two, then finally three lines next to names. Once the third line appears, the kid doesn't get presents anymore.
*** | 二 | Two | に ; ふた | Two | The kanji two and the radical two are the exact same things. Therefore, you know the kanji for two already! More simply put, you can just know that this kanji is the double of one. It's two lines, that's not all that hard to remember! How do you count to two? Just use someone's knee (に), and then their other knee. There — two knees! Imagine asking to borrow the two knees of a stranger in the street, just so you can count to two. They're confused at first, but then they present each knee to you in a loving sort of way. Yep, that's two knees alright.
# | 女 | Woman | じょ, にょ, にょう ; おんな, め | Woman | The radical for woman and the kanji for woman are exactly the same. That means if you know your radicals well, you know the meaning of this kanji as well! How swell. When you think of a woman, think of Jo-Anne (じょ), though she usually goes by just "Jo." Whenever the reading じょ comes up, we will use the character Jo-Anne. She's quite a short woman, which is to help us differentiate じょ from じょう (who is the giant, oafish farmhand Joe). じょ is a smaller lady, じょう is a giant man.
# | 玉 | Ball | たま ; ぎょく | King + Drop | The king has a big drop of liquid in his hand... but then he bounces it! The drop was really a ball. This kanji looks just like a king bouncing a ball, no? If not, imagine the kanji itself bouncing the drop (the ball) over and over again. Kanji are surprisingly playful like that. When he's done playing with it, the king gives his ball to Tamara (たま), the resident ball girl, for safekeeping. Try to remember Tamara the ball girl. She'll come up anytime the reading for a kanji is たま, and usually she'll be involved with some kind of ball or round object. That's her job, after all.
*** | 本 | Book, Origin, Real, Main | ほん ; もと | Book | The kanji and the radical are the same, so remembering the meaning of this kanji is as simple as making sure you know the radical for book first! If you know the radical, you know this kanji means book as well. Take note that the second, third, and fourth meanings of this kanji are origin, real, and main. You can figure this out by thinking about how books mainly have their origins in real life. Make sure you know those radicals, yo! And good luck with all the meanings (sorry sorry sorry). Books are one of the best ways to hone (ほん) your intellect, you know? Just think about books and how you use them to hone your skills. Or read a book about honing things. Like swords.
# | 子 | Child, Kid | し, す ; こ | Child | The child radical and the child kanji are exactly the same. So, if you know your radicals, you know your kanji as well! This won't last forever (where radicals are exactly the same as the kanji) so enjoy it while the kanji are still small and simple! To remember the sounds  し and す we'll use these mnemonics: There is a child standing in front of you. You look closely at the child but something seems wrong. You rub your eyes and when you open them again there is a sheep (し) in a suit (す) in front of you. You yelp, blink, and it's back to being a child. Are... all children really just sheep in suits?! The child runs away and you chase after it. Every time it's about to turn a corner it looks like a sheep in a suit again, but whenever you yell and point, it turns back. You're the only one who can see this sheep suit child!!
# | 丸 | Circle, Circular, Round | まる ; がん | Nine + Drop | What's something with nine sides? Just add a drop and you'll have something that's almost a circle. It's not quite a circle though. You just need to add a drop of liquid to the edges to smooth it out to become a full circle. Do you know about the adorable cat Maru? If not, you should check it out. May seem like a distraction, but if you come back knowing the reading for this kanji, then it's totally worth while. When you think about a circle, think about Maru all rolled up in a little circle, being super adorable. Don't tell me it doesn't melt your heart just thinking about it. Alternatively, you could also look at this kanji and think of Maru inside of a box, with his little tail sticking out of it. Whatever works best for you, just get yourself to "Maru." Obviously if you "don't know this reading" well enough, you should watch some more Maru videos. I'll understand... just make sure you come back someday, okay?
# | 正 | Correct | せい, しょう ; ただ, まさ | Ground + Stop | There is a line on the ground so you stop, making a giant sign pop up that says CORRECT! You obeyed the rules of the road and did the correct thing. Good on you. Imagine walking, staring at the ground until you come across a line that you're supposed to stop at. If you stop, the big "correct" sign appears, chiming a happy tune. You did the correct thing, so here's your reward: a saber (せい) from the Shougun (しょう) himself! Perhaps a slightly unorthodox weapon for a ruler of medieval Japan, but you won't complain about a saber from the Shogun himself!
# | 土 | Dirt, Earth, Ground | ど, と ; つち | Dirt | The dirt radical and the dirt kanji are the same! As long as you know the radical dirt, you know the kanji dirt. Who spends a lot of time in dirt? Dogs (ど) do! Dogs dig in dirt, they roll in dirt, sometimes they try to eat dirt (which isn't so great). Dogs and dirt just go together!
# | 犬 | Dog | いぬ ; けん | Dog | The dog radical and dog kanji are exactly the same! Soon there will be very few kanji/radical-same combos ... so enjoy it while you can. You see an emu running towards you from off in the distance (strange to see an emu in these parts...). As it gets closer, you realize that it's not an emu at all, it's something that sounds the same, or similar... an inu! (いぬ) There's a good chance you know the word for dog in Japanese already too. If so, you're ahead of the game. If not, do your best to learn the reading before moving on.
# | 夕 | Evening | ゆう ; せき | Evening | The evening radical and the evening kanji are the same. If you know the radical you know the meaning of the kanji. Do what you're meant to do. Study those radicals! The evening is when all the youths (ゆう) come outside to play. Young people love staying up the entire evening doing youth-people things, and it's really obnoxious for us curmudgeonly folk. Note: All the ゆう readings will use the word "youths" for the reading mnemonic. You can think of these "youths" as a group of younger people who cause a lot of the problems in this world, just like how people treat millennials nowadays.
# | 出 | Exit | しゅつ ; で, だ | Mountain | There are two mountains in front of you... and probably a bunch more around you too. You are in a pass, and don't know how to get out. You are frantically looking for the exit before you freeze to death. The most important thing is to find the exit from this mountain range - your life depends on it. In your imagination, really feel like your life depends on getting out. The important part is the feeling of "needing to get out of the mountain pass." If you have this feeling, you'll be more likely to remember that this kanji means exit, because that's what you want to do when you see this kanji. As you're trying to exit this mountain range, you suddenly realize that someone is actually hunting you. What? Make sure to feel that sudden realization. It's crazy. Then, you find the exit and run towards it. Sadly, the hunter is waiting there, and he shoots you (しゅつ) through the leg, knocking you down. Focus on the surprise of realizing you're being hunted while trying to find the exit to the mountain range, then focus on the next part, where you get shot. View it in your head as the hunter shooting you. Powww!
# | 目 | Eye | め ; もく | Eye | The eye radical and eye kanji are the same as each other, so now you know them both. Well... you'll know them both as long as you studied your radicals, young grasshopper. If you didn't, then you're just a young grasshopper who needs to study their radicals. Your eyes are important to you, right? Sadly, one of your eyes is missing right now, because a sheep grabbed it and pulled it out, and is now running away from you, yelling his sheep call.... "Mehhhhhh (め)!" Of course, feel the pain of your eye being gone... and struggle to get it back. You eventually give up because the sheep is too fast, but then you come up with an idea. What if I call out back to the sheep in its own language? Go ahead and cover one eye and start making "MEHHH" noises to see if you can get the sheep to come back to you and give you your eye. It's up to you whether it works or not, but be sure to feel frustrated by its reaction, or happy by it. Either one works.
# | 火 | Fire | か ; ひ, ほ | Fire | The fire radical and the fire kanji are the same as each other. If you know the radicals then this one is EZPZ. Whenever we need to remember か, we use the word car. For this kanji, when we think fire, we ought to think of something on fire. What's on fire? It's obviously your very own car (か)! Oh Goddd NOOO! Oh no... Oh no!! If you don't have a car, imagine what it'd feel like if your car just exploded and burned down. If you do have a car, imagine your own car in this situation. It should be a terrible feeling, if you imagine it well enough. So, when you think fire, remember the fear you had when your car was given to the flames. Now you have to walk everywhere, sad :(
*** | 五 | Five | ご ; いつ | Five | The five radical and the five kanji are the same. Know your radicals, friend-o. Five is the number of buildings Godzilla (ご) will knock down. Oh, look! There he goes now. One, two, three, four, five—GODZILLA IS HERE GO GO, RUN!
*** | 四 | Four | し ; よん, よ | Mouth + Legs | Imagine contorting yourself in such a way that your legs end up inside your mouth. You have bent your body in all the wrong ways in order to achieve this. In fact, if you look at yourself, you look like a square now... You're just a person with four sides. If you can get to square, you should be able to get to four as well, since squares always have four sides. This amazing feat, which turned you into a four sided square, has you looking like a four sided animal: the sheep (し). Look at yourself in the mirror and see an adorable four-sided sheep looking back at you. (You can't see the other sides because mirrors aren't 3D and whatnot. So you're a bit cartoonish.) What's better than one four sided sheep?
# | 手 | Hand, Doer | て ; しゅ, ず | Hand | The hand radical and the hand kanji are identical in looks and meaning! That should make things easy! Make sure you're studying your radicals. It won't be forever that radicals and kanji overlap so nicely like this! To remember the reading て we will use the word "Television." You have great hands. Go ahead and look at them. OH MY GOD. You have little televisions (て) on your hands. They are playing the dumbest show you can think of, too, both hands at the same time. You try to shake your hands off, but it's no good. The televisions are stuck, and the volume won't go down. You have no idea how you got these televisions on your hands. All you know is that you want them off right this instant.
# | 天 | Heaven | てん ; あま | Heaven | The radical heaven is the same as the kanji heaven, making this an easy kanji to memorize. If you know your radicals well (and you should!) you know the meaning of this kanji well, as well! Heaven... nowadays, people aren't all that good. Things have gotten bad. That's why the acceptance rate to get into heaven is only ten (てん) percent! Imagine yourself in line to get into heaven. You're super worried, because you're not sure if you'll get in. You heard there was a one in ten chance... those aren't good odds. Feel nervous in your imagination. Feel worried. Feel the pressure as you get closer and closer to the gate... will you make it?? Ten percent!
# | 王 | King | おう | King | The king radical and the king kanji are the same! Hopefully you're a king of radicals... because if you are, this kanji was super easy for you! When you see the king you need to say, "Oh (おう) King! Oh King, oh no, oh why are you looking at me like that? Oh King... you aren't going to chop off my head are you? OH NO!" You need to be polite when you talk to the king and add "Oh" to the beginning, otherwise the king will be pretty angry and bad things might happen. We're going to use the 王 kanji for all おう mnemonics from now on. So make sure you always remember to say おう King!
# | 左 | Left | さ ; ひだり | Narwhal + Construction | Narwhals do construction with their left hands (or flippers, I guess). That's because all narwhals are left-handed! Picture a bunch of narwhals constructing an underwater ice village. They're all working away with their left hands. In their left hands, the narwhals all hold saws (さ). That's because the ice for their homes is already there, so they just need to saw away at them to make the shapes they want. Narwhal construction is actually very simple. If you're right-handed, imagine trying to use these left-handed saws. It flips and flops all over until you drop it. But if you're left-handed it feels just right!
*** | 中 | Middle, In, Inside, Center | ちゅう ; なか | Middle | The radical Middle and the kanji Middle are both the same. So if you know one, you know the other. Make sure you're studying your radicals, otherwise you might find yourself in the middle of a kanji-learning problem. To remember the reading for this kanji, we use the word Chewbacca to pull up ちゅう in our memory. If you remember back to the radical 中, the middle of your mouth was stabbed with a stick. You look up to see who did it. There stands Chewbacca, doing his Chewbacca yell. And it isn't a stick in your mouth, it's an arrow from his crossbow (a bowcaster, actually). It just so happens Chewbacca's bowcaster looks just like this kanji too. Go figure. Imagine the fear and shock you'd feel after finding out it was Chewbacca who shot the middle of your mouth (and head). Touch his fur. Look really close at his weapon. Give him a sniff, too. Just so that memory never fades away.
*** | 月 | Moon, Month | げつ, がつ ; つき | Moon | The moon kanji is made up of the moon radical. This kanji is also used to mean month. This should be EZPZ as long as you know the radicals already! The moon really gets (げつ) to your guts (がつ). Staring at the moon for too long will give you terrible indigestion, so be careful! Use the げつ reading when this kanji means "moon", in words like "moonlight". Use げつ for counting months, and saying things like "last month and "next month", too. Go for がつ in the names of months, like "January". Don't worry too much about memorizing this pattern, though. You'll be getting lots of practice soon!
# | 々 | Repeater, Repetition, Reduplication, Iteration Mark | のま | Prison + Drop | This is a strange kanji because it doesn't really mean anything at all. In fact, what it does is it repeats the kanji that comes before it. For example: 人々 is actually 人人. This kanji shows up whenever there's a repeating kanji, because it's often easier to write than writing a more complicated kanji twice. That's why this kanji is the repeater. It repeats what comes before it. To remember that this kanji is the repeater, though, think of a drop of water dripping into a prison. Drip drop drip drop. It does that over and over again, driving the prisoners nuts. But it never stops. It just repeats over and over. Since this kanji doesn't really have a meaning as much as it does a function, try to change the way you think about it when you're memorizing it. In Japanese, this symbol is often called the のま because it looks like the katakana characters ノ and マ put together. If you know katakana then this will be easy to read. If you don't, think of it this way: Your mom is the repeater. She is trying to force feed you over and over again until you explode (literally). You keep yelling "No ma!" (のま) but she doesn't stop. She's on a repeating track, never stopping, repeating forever. If you feel like you're so full you're about to burst, and if you imagine your mom doing this to you (how could you, ma?), you should be able to remember the reading of this kanji. That being said, the reading is mostly only useful in the event that you have to identify a 々—otherwise, you won't see it much.
*** | 田 | Rice Paddy, Rice Field | た ; でん | Rice Paddy | The rice paddy radical and the rice paddy kanji are the same, making this one super easy to remember, at least meaning-wise. Just know your radicals, and you will know your kanji as well. To remember the reading た, we use the word "taco." You're in the rice field... but when you lean down to examine the rice more closely, you see that it's not rice that's growing, it's a bunch of little tacos (た), blossoming out of the ground. Smell the tacos. Touch the tacos. Taste the tacos. This is definitely a very strange rice field.
# | 右 | Right | ゆう, う ; みぎ | Narwhal + Mouth | Narwhal mouths are on the right side of their head. In fact, some people didn't think they had mouths at all because they weren't looking from the right. Rookie mistake. See how the "mouth" radical is to the right of the "narwhal" radical? That should help you remember that this means right. Imagine looking at a narwhal from the front. No mouth. Now look at it from the right. Mouth! How did we know to look from the right, though? Because the youths (ゆう) figured it out. Youths think in ways that older people usually don't. That's why they can see the swirls on cereal, hear the music behind noise, and of course, look at things from the right side. Imagine a bunch of youths walking in a group and looking at everything from the right. You remember when you were a youth and you used to look at everything from one side too. Note: All the ゆう readings will use the word "youths" for the reading mnemonic. You can think of these "youths" as a group of younger people who cause a lot of the problems in this world.
*** | 六 | Six | ろく ; む | Lid + Fins | Just imagine a beast with a lid for a head and fins for feet, running around looking as insane as possible (really imagine it!). When it runs up to you, it shows you the top of its lid-head. On it is written the numbers 666. Why? Because it's a spawn of the devil, and the number six is the devil's number. Imagine this beast doing various crazy things, the crazier the better (to help you remember). Make sure all these things are associated with the devil and the devil's number (six), so you can remember the meaning of this kanji. Whenever we need to remember the reading ろく we just use the word rock. So, think about the devil and the devil's number. What is often associated with those things? Why, rock (ろく) and roll is. Imagine the lid-head fin-legged beast suddenly blasting out rock music in the middle of his destructive mayhem. Sing along with the monster, if it helps you to remember the reading of this kanji.
*** | 小 | Small, Little | しょう ; ちい, こ, お | Small | The small radical and the small kanji are exactly the same. Knowing radicals sure is nice, huh? This small kanji would be the perfect gift to give to the Shougun (しょう). The Shougun loves little things, and the little kanji represents all of that. You read that right, shougun is written with a long う sound. Make sure you spell it right from now on!
# | 立 | Stand | りつ, りゅう ; た | Stand | The radical stand and the kanji stand are the same thing, so now you know them both. If you're keeping up with your radical studies, you're also keeping up with your kanji studies! Think of someone who has to stand up straight for you. These people are pros in hospitality. These are the doormen at the Ritz (りつ). Imagine the doormen being extra straight… too straight in their standing. On their uniform is “The Ritz” written in fine lettering, and as you walk past them, they stand up straight and say “Welcome to the Ritz!” Whatever you do, while you’re thinking about it, make sure you think about how they stand up so straight, and associate it with these doormen, who work, specifically, at the Ritz. If you effectively imagine all this, you should be able to remember this on’yomi. Go through it like it’s a movie in your head!
# | 丁 | Street | ちょう, てい | Street | The kanji and the radical that look like this are exactly the same. They are both street. As long as you know the radical street, you know the kanji street. So you're walking down this street, and off in the distance you see the silhouette of somebody. A lady. Big, black curly hair and red eyes. It is the street-woman, Mrs. Chou (ちょう). Mrs. Chou is a character you'll see a lot throughout WaniKani, anytime the reading is ちょう like this one. A lore will develop around her, so the more vividly you can imagine your Mrs. Chou right now, the easier things will get later. In general, she's a mean, evil woman, so as long as you imagine her within those parameters, you're good. And, when I say she is a "street-woman" in the mnemonic, I don't mean she is homeless. She has a nice, middle-class home that's not outside of her financial means. What I'm saying is she wanders the streets looking for evil things to do. These are HER streets. So whenever you see the street radical, know that Mrs. Chou is probably going to show up!
# | 日 | Sun, Day | にち, じつ ; ひ, か, び | Sun | The sun radical and sun kanji are the same, huzzah! Also, if you want to remember day as well, you can just think about how a day is the time it takes for the sun to cross the sky. The radical for this one is easy too, making the meaning for this kanji super easy as well! There are so many on'yomi for this kanji, but since this kanji is so important and common, you'll end up learning them all eventually whether you want to or not. For now, you're only going to have to learn one of the readings, and that one is にち. The sun is so hot. It focused its rays to take out one man... and that man is Friedrich Nietzsche (にち), famous philosopher. He philosophized one too many things about the sun, so the sun decided it was time he paid. This reading will be easier to remember if you know of Friedrich Nietzsche... so do your research and learn about him if you don't. He's a pretty historical dude. Imagine the sun totally pissed off, too. It makes a grunting noise as it builds up a sun beam to blast him off the face of the earth. Also note that there's another reading worth learning as well: じつ. The reading can be remembered by thinking "Gee! Two readings?" Because, seriously, two readings? Too many...
# | 刀 | Sword, Katana | とう ; かたな | Sword | The radical and the meaning of this kanji are almost the same! The radical is sword, but we're learning Japanese, so can you name a Japanese sword? That's right, the most common is a katana, which happens to be the meaning of this kanji as well. This kanji also looks a lot like the kanji 力. To avoid getting them confused, remember that this one is missing the little nubbin at the top, because 90% of the power comes from the sword to cut your enemies down (which is why the sword kanji is 90% of the power kanji). So now you have this sweet katana in your hands and you're swinging it around like an idiot. Feel free to make whooshing noises as you swing it around. To become a master katana wielder, you decide to travel to とうきょう (That's Tokyo!). とうきょう has the best sword and katana schools in the world, so it makes sense to travel to とうきょう. Imagine trying to travel to とうきょう with your katana. Airport security is not happy with you trying to take a katana on the plane, so you get a full cavity search. I hope you don't have any other swords hidden anywhere.
# | 才 | Talent | さい | Ground + Barb + Slide | On the ground you put barbs at the bottom of a slide. This is your special talent. When you go down the slide, you fly right past the barbs like some kind of daredevil. Any normal kid would land on the barbs and get hurt, but you have this talent. Imagine yourself placing the barbs in front of the slide, thinking about how talented you are. It took years of training to perfect this talent. But it was worth it. Everyone on the playground respects you now. But then people start to say that no human could have so much talent, that you must be a cyborg (さい). Are you really a talented cyborg? Cyborgs have brain implants and cool bionic limbs, so they're basically the most talented people around.
# | 千 | Thousand | せん ; ち | Thousand | This kanji looks like and means the same thing as the radical, which makes it particularly easy to remember. As long as you know the radical thousand then you know the kanji thousand as well! Remember the thousand crosses you got stuck under while learning the radical 千? You're still under it. Then, suddenly, someone pops his head over you and says "Hey, I'll save you... but only for a thousand cents (せん). Go ahead and try to calculate what that would come out to. It's not that expensive, actually. But, the problem is even though you have a thousand cents in your pocket, you can't get them out. You're stuck under all these crosses. So, your savior just shrugs and runs off, he won't help you anymore. Feel the desperateness of the situation to help yourself remember the kanji better. Hear the coins falling on the ground.
# | 木 | Tree, Wood | もく, ぼく ; き, こ | Tree | This is another kanji that is the same as the radical. Both tree and tree are the same in looks and meaning. So, how are those radicals doing? Do you know them well? You’re walking through the trees, looking at them. They look ominous. Suddenly, you trip and fall. The trees start to mock (もく) you. Even the mocking birds mock you. It’s terrible. It’s painful. You’re being mocked as you pull yourself up off the ground. Feel the shame, feel the irritation. Make yourself want to run away from those dumb trees that are mocking you.
# | 水 | Water | すい ; みず | Water | The water radical and the water kanji are the same. So as long as you know the radicals, you know the kanji. Imagine a lake (i.e. a whole bunch of water). When you think of water, you should try to think of this beautiful lake. It’s sunny, the trees smell nice (imagine a tree smell if you can – the more senses you use the better!) and on that tree there is an awesome tire swing (すい). You get onto the tire swing and you are swinging back and forth. The water is right in front of you, and you are able to use the swing to throw yourself into the water. It’s a lot colder than you expected, and you come back to the surface, gasping for breath. The water gets into your mouth and you taste it. How strange, it’s very, very sweet. Imagine the sweetness of the water and how weird it is (really really sweet, this water is). I know that was a long one, but try to imagine all the different bits. Try to feel the feelings (cold, smell, etc) too. The more you create in this fake memory (which you’re using to remember and associate water with すい (swing)) the more likely you are to end up remembering enough to make it happen. Especially when it comes to the senses part, the more vividly you imagined it, the more likely you are to remember the on’yomi.
# | 白 | White | はく ; しろ, しら | White | The radical white and the kanji white are the same. Study your radicals hard! Most important thing! The white team was the first to be able to hack (はく) the white iPhone. Imagine two teams (black and white), wearing their team colors, working really hard on hacking the iPhone. It is a huge contest, and people are watching with a lot of tension, to see who will hack the white iPhone first. Feel that tension, and see the colors separating them so vividly. The colors are important, and the excitement of the winner holding up the hacked iPhone is too.
# | 文 | Writing, Sentence | ぶん, もん ; ふみ | Writing | The kanji and the radical are the same, so remembering the meaning of this kanji is as simple as making sure you know the radical for writing first! If you know the radical, you know this kanji means writing as well. Make sure you know those radicals, yo! This kanji has more than one important reading you need to learn! But don't worry, here's a mnemonic to help you: You always put writing on your buns (ぶん) to keep them from getting eaten by the bun monster (もん). What kind of writing? Usually it's just an X to show the monster these buns are off-limits. (In fact, it kind of looks like the X part in 文. Hmm…) Imagine writing a big X (or even a big 文) on all your buns, then showing them to the bun monster. Watch as he turns and goes at the sight of the writing, all disappointed. Not today, bun monster.
# | 円 | Yen, Round, Circle | えん ; まる | Head + Lid | The combination of radicals for this kanji may not be obvious at first, but if you look carefully you'll see it. The lid is inside the head for this kanji because it's holding something in. Imagine the top of someone's head being closed by a lid. Open that lid up and peer inside... it's full of yen coins, the currency of Japan! Another thing that will help is to associate the word round to this kanji, because it has both of these meanings. Both are right, and if you learn one that's better than not learning either, but maybe if you think about how round the coins themselves are inside this person's head, you'll remember this one too. What does the word yen sound like? It sounds like えん. Why? because back in the day, Japanese used to have a "ye" sound, but now it doesn't. Instead, it's an "e" sound, which is why yen = えん! Picture these round えん in your mind. Maybe look some up online too, just to be safe.
# | 矢 | Arrow | や ; し | Arrow | The arrow radical and the arrow kanji are the same. Sort of a "straight" shot to memorizing this kanji, you know? Just know your radicals and you'll know this kanji! To remember the reading や we use the word “Yankees” (like the evil baseball team, go M’s!). What is this arrow doing? It’s following around all the Yankee (や) baseball players, stalking them, waiting to make its move (I’ll let you decide what its “move” is). Imagine the arrow as a human-sized living thing with legs, arms, and clothes, though. Strangely, it’s able to walk around even though it's an arrow. It has some kind of agenda. Make it a bit evil, if you can. What a strange thing…
# | 市 | City | し ; いち | Lid + Towel | You lift the lid off a manhole and there's a towel with the name of a city on it. Picture this towel with the name of a city on it. Any city you like. Maybe it's your city! This city must have a lot of sheep (し) because there is a sheep monogram on the towel. It's the sheep city. Imagine a city that has a sheep for its mascot. This city was built on sheep, don't you say a bad word about sheep when you're there.
# | 牛 | Cow | ぎゅう ; うし | Cow | The radical and the kanji for cow are exactly the same! That makes it easy to remember, so long as you know your radicals well enough. To distinguish this from the "noon" kanji (午), try thinking of the bit poking out of the top of this kanji as the cow's head. Have you ever heard of わぎゅう beef? That ぎゅう is this ぎゅう. I hope you know what わぎゅう beef is, otherwise this will be a difficult one to learn.
# | 切 | Cut | せつ ; き | Seven + Sword | If you have seven swords, there's only so much you can do with them. The main thing? Probably using them to cut something. Take these seven swords and swing them around. Cut everything in your path, including yourself. Then, think about how dumb it was to try to use seven swords at once, and then feel the pain of the cut you gave yourself. Ouch, ouch ouch. Because having seven swords for yourself is too much, you decide to take the swords and divide them up amongst pairs of people. You cut them into pairs, and give sets (せつ) to everyone who needs them in the village. Just make sure you think about how you need to give them away in sets, and not anything else. This is the most important thing to think about in your head as you're trying to establish the mnemonic for your kanji reading memory. It's gotta be sets.
# | 方 | Direction, Way | ほう ; かた | Direction | The radical and the kanji for direction are the same! Huzzah! There is also another meaning too, though. This can also mean way as well. Think of it this way: When you move in one direction in your life, you are developing your own way. "The way of [your name here]." The only direction you need to go in is forward, it's always the right way. What direction do you always know? Which direction do you always want to go? Home (ほう). Something about your home always stays with you, no matter how far away you go. So if you're lost and you don't know which direction to go, just think of home! Close your eyes and picture your home in your mind. Can you tell which direction it is from where you are?
# | 戸 | Door | と ; こ | Door | The radical and the kanji for door are the same! Time to open the door to the reading part of this mnemonic. You open the door and immediately get it closed back on your toe (と), literally causing your toe to explode. Feel the pain of your toe going away. Think about the other side of the door, where your toe is probably rolling around after it blasted off your foot.
# | 太 | Fat | たい, た ; ふと; おお | Big + Drop | You have a big person here, with an extra drop of something below their thigh, hanging down. That's fat right there. This person has fat hanging off their fat. Maybe you should touch the fat to see what it is... feel it, and squeeze it. It'll help you to remember that this kanji means "fat." This fat person also has a fat tie (たい). It's really thick and luxurious. Imagine them tying their lovely fat tie. Imagine them trying to tie the tie, but they can't lift their hands around to do it. You have to help them out. Another thing that might help you to remember this kanji's reading is that it's the same reading as 大 (or, one of the same readings). Similar kanji often have similar readings, which is a good thing to know when you have to guess (it's true with this one, anyways!).
# | 父 | Father, Dad | ちち, とう ; ふ | Father | The radical and the kanji for father are the same. No, I am not your father... but this kanji / radical set is! Imagine your father is Cheech (ちち) from Cheech and Chong. Hopefully you know who they are. If not, think about your father laughing like this: ちちちちちちちち〜！
# | 少 | Few, A Little | しょう ; すこ, すく | Small + Slide | You have a small slide. The thing about small slides is that they can only fit a few people at a time. Imagine a small slide (how could you not, after you see the radicals?) with only a few people on it, trying to move forward. Only a few people are required to create a slide traffic jam, though. :( Why is there a little traffic jam on the slide? Because the Shougun (しょう) is using the slide and he loves little things. He's forcing everyone to stop and watch, even though there are people backed up behind him. How inconsiderate. Imagine this in your head. A traffic jam on a little slide, all because the shougun is using it. Picture some caution tape, orange cones, and Japanese secret service members all making sure no one gets close to the shougun while he slides. A few people are crying. They want to slide, they want to leave.
# | 友 | Friend | ゆう ; とも | Narwhal + Stool | A narwhal sitting on a stool is your friend. Imagine that narwhal sitting there. It waves its flipper and says "hi friend" to you. "Hi friend," says the narwhal. "I must warn you about all the youths." (ゆう) Your narwhal friend goes on to warn you about all those youths, and how they will try to take away your friendship with their good looks and young ages.
# | 毛 | Fur, Hair | もう ; け | Fur | Fur and fur are the same as each other, so the meaning of this kanji should be simple. This can also mean hair, too, though more like furry hair. Just make sure you're studying your radicals, otherwise it won't be as simple as I'd hoped. With fur, wisp your imagination to a land where there are stalks of fur all around, just like a big tall grassy field (except instead of grass, it’s fur). You’re surrounded by the black fur, the wind is blowing. Imagine yourself touching the long fur and smelling it. What does it feel / smell like? Now it’s time to get rid of it. There’s just too much hair! To get rid of it, you’ll need to mow (もう) it down with a lawn mower. Imagine yourself starting up the lawn mower, and taking it around, mowing down the hair. Hear the sound of the mower in your head (they’re loud and distinct). The important thing is to imagine yourself mowing everything. Key is to think “fur → In the fur → getting rid of the fur → mow the fur,” in that order. That’ll get you to mow, which will help you to remember the on’yomi. Smell the fur as you mow it down. Feel it flying everywhere. It's giant, so it must be pretty intense. Make it more intense to help yourself to remember the reading of this kanji better.
*** | 半 | Half | はん ; なか | Triceratops + Dry | A triceratops is lying out to dry. But it's so big, and it's laying on its side, so only half of it gets dry. Imagine the triceratops on its side, then imagine it getting up. When it stands up normally, half of its body is soaking wet still. It's a half-n-half triceratops right now. "You're half wet and half dry! I will cut you in half with my laser blaster so you're proper again," a voice says. It is  Han Solo (はん), the anti-establishment guy who hates when things aren't even. Imagine him using his blaster to shoot the poor triceratops in half, perfectly down the wet-dry line of its body.
# | 心 | Heart | しん ; こころ | Heart | The radical heart and the kanji heart are the same. Rejoice and let your heart be free! Also, make sure you know the radicals by heart, it'll help you to learn more effectively, just like with this kanji. The heart, where is it stored in your body? Most people thought it was in the chest, but in reality, your heart is stored in your shin (しん). This is when I start kicking you in the shin and you imagine feeling the pain of getting kicked there. As I kick you in the shin, the stress is getting too much for your poor heart inside your shin. Poor shin, and poor heart.
# | 内 | Inside, Within | ない ; うち | Head + Person | There's a person inside your head. And, you have no idea how to get them out. They're inside for good, and it's freaking you out. As in, there's a little person in there, running around, controlling your brain. People think you're crazy, but you know better... He's inside there, doing evil things. You know this kanji means inside, so you can keep thinking about the person that’s inside you, running around. You finally discover him, and try to take him out, but before you can, he pulls out a knife (ない) and threatens to cut you if you do anything irrational. Imagine him holding the knife out, threatening to stab your brain. You’re in a conundrum here. If you don’t take him out, you’re in trouble, but if you do try to take him out, he might stab you in the brain with his knife. Try to think a way around this situation, focusing mainly on his knife.
# | 字 | Letter, Character, Symbol | じ | Roof + Child | The roof child stands upon the roof, holding up a single letter, a single character, a single symbol for the world to see. More people can see this character since the kid is on the roof. The character that is being shown is "J," which stands for Jesus (じ). The kid wants everyone to see this letter and symbol. Imagine the child holding up the letter yelling at everyone who passes that the "J" stands for "Jesus." And yes, this kid just loves the Big Lebowski.
# | 生 | Life | せい, しょう ; い, なま, う, は, き | Life | The life radical and the life kanji are the same, so hopefully you now just know them both. Study your radicals and you'll read good. You can save life or take it away with your new saber (せい). This is the saber you got from doing the correct thing (remember?), and now you need to figure out how to use it with this life. So what do you do? Imagine having someone's life in the palm of your hands. It's up to you whether you protect it with your saber or... well... do the other thing sabers are for.
# | 台 | Machine | だい, たい | Private + Mouth | You have a private mouth that's a machine. But you have to keep your machine mouth private because it would scare all the non-machine people around you. Doesn't this kanji look like a machine mouth? Now wouldn't you want to keep that private from the people you know? To make sure they can't tell what's machine and what's human, you dye (だい) the mouth to make it look like skin. You find dye the same shade as your normal mouth and just slap it on there. Imagine being so afraid that people will find out about your machine mouth that you have to dye it to match a normal human mouth. Oh, when will this discrimination against machine-kind end?!
*** | 母 | Mother, Mom | はは, かあ ; ぼ | Window | Someone breaks part of your window. Who did this? It was your mother! See how the vertical bar is broken and your window frame is all messed up now? Why would your mother do such a thing?! Her hand is bleeding too… Suddenly your mother points her bloodied finger at you and laughs, "Haha (はは)!" She keeps laughing, haha haha haha, over and over. You feel even more alarmed. You thought your mother was going to explain or apologize, but instead she's pointing and saying, "Haha," over and over. Yeah. That sounds like my mom.
# | 午 | Noon | ご | Slide + Dry | The slide is dry at noon. The sun is brightest at noon, so it dries the morning dew off the slide, making noon the perfect time to slide. Picture all the kids out sliding on the slide at noon during their lunch break. It's hot and dry and they're very happy. Noon also happens to be the time Godzilla (ご) decided to attack for the same reasons: it's dry and kids are using the slide. Watch in horror as Godzilla's giant foot crushes all the kids and their slide at exactly noon. You'd better go...
# | 北 | North | ほく ; きた | Ice + Stick + Spoon | If you rub an ice stick against a spoon, the spoon will always point north. This is because the ice stick creates a magnetic field that makes the spoon act like a compass needle. That's science, friends! Imagine rubbing a stick made of ice against a spoon. Now watch the spoon spin and spin and spin until it stops, pointing directly towards the north. This is a very handy trick if you get lost on your way to the north pole. Plenty of ice sticks around there, after all. You use this technique to go north, where everyone likes to hoe cookies (ほく). You never knew this, but in the north people have to hoe cookies to make their living. They hoe the cookies up and sell 'em. It's like the main industry up north. Picture the miles of farmland covered in freshly grown cookies. You can hear the cookies crunch and crumble under the hoes as northerners dig in for harvest time.
# | 今 | Now | こん ; いま | Now | The kanji and the radical are the same, so remembering the meaning of this kanji is as simple as making sure you know the radical for now first! If you know the radical, you know this kanji means now as well. Make sure you know those radicals, yo! Right now the condors (こん) are in danger! Not next week, not next year, right now! Haven't you heard that deforestation and pollution are killing all of the condors?! Go outside right now and do something to save the condors. If you don't do something right now there won't be enough time left!
# | 古 | Old | こ ; ふる | Old | The kanji and the radical are the same, so remembering the meaning of this kanji is as simple as making sure you know the radical for old first! If you know the radical, you know this kanji means old as well. Note: This "old" does not refer to people. Think of it as "old things" instead. Make sure you know those radicals, yo! Old things are misunderstood by the 子s (こ) of the world. *Note:* Come up with a 子 character you can use for all the こ reading mnemonics going forward. This child will show up many times throughout your mnemonic journey, and it will help if you imagine the same character the whole time. Imagine a 子 looking at old things. A record player. A Game Boy. A cassette player. Kids just don't get old things. Note: When you see the (古) radical in a kanji, there's a good chance it will use the reading こ.
# | 外 | Outside | がい ; そと, はず | Evening + Toe | You're known to get the ailment evening toe, which is when your toe catches on fire after getting really, really hot (imagine this happening, ouch!). The only way to fix it is to cool your toe down, and the best way to do that is to go outside. After imagining your evening toe overheating, rush outside to fix it. It's the best way to prevent fire toe, which is way worse. In the evening it's nice and cold outside too, so feel this on your skin, and feel the cold air on your toe, which is starting to get some relief. You go outside (you’re not supposed to be out there at night!) and you’re accosted by a couple of guys. Then, all of a sudden, Guy (がい) Fawkes jumps from the roof above you and takes them out, then starts running. “Guy Fawkes!” you yell after him! If you don’t know Guy Fawkes, you should do a little reading up on him to make this mnemonic make sense. Also, Anonymous People wear a Guy Fawkes mask, if that helps any.
*** | 分 | Part, Minute | ぶん, ふん, ぶ ; わ | Fins + Sword | The fins that fell onto my sword were sliced into two parts. The logic of this story makes a lot of sense - even in the kanji itself the fins are falling onto the sword from above. What happens to things that fall onto swords? They become more than one part. Now that you've cut the fish, it's time to cut something else into parts. Next on your list is the buns (ぶん), which need to be split up amongst the people. Think about the buns (ぶん) as absolutely delicious things you want to eat really bad. And since you've cut them into carefully portioned parts, you can share them with all your friends!
# | 引 | Pull | ひ ; いん | Bow + Stick | If you have a bow and a stick you need to pull the two back together to shoot it. If you can't pull it, you won't be shooting anything. Imagine taking a stick and pulling it back into your bow. Imagine how hard you have to pull. This thing is really strong! When you pull the bow back, your body strains and you feel an immense heat (ひ) rise inside of you. You keep pulling and the heat grows hotter and hotter. Imagine using all your strength to pull on this bow. Imagine the heat rising in your body. There's sweat dripping down your face. It's so hot, but you have to keep pulling!
# | 止 | Stop | し ; と, や | Stop | The stop radical is the same as the stop kanji. Know your radicals, yo! You have to stop because there is a sheep (し) in front of you. You try to walk around the sheep, but it moves to stop in front of you again. Every time the sheep stops you stop too. Imagine the fluffy wool of the sheep, stopping you from moving forward. You can't push past it, no matter how hard you try.
# | 用 | Task, Use | よう ; もち | Task | The kanji and the radical are the same, so remembering the meaning of this kanji is as simple as making sure you know the radical for task first! If you know the radical, you know this kanji means task as well. Make sure you know those radicals, yo! Today, your task is to eat yogurt (よう). It's nutritious, it's delicious, and I'm telling you to do it, so you have to. A task is basically just something you have to do, so that's what this is. Eat your yogurt. (Gogurt doesn't count, don't @ me.)
# | 万 | Ten Thousand | まん, ばん | Leaf + Sword | You cut the leaf with your sword into ten thousand pieces! If you can get to ten thousand different pieces, then that means your sword is absolutely perfect. If your sword dulls before you get to ten thousand, you have to throw it away. Now that you have ten thousand pieces of tiny leaf paper, you decide to turn them into a manga (まん)! Each little leaf piece will become a panel. Carefully draw your manga onto these ten thousand leaf pieces. Maybe you even use your sword again to give them some textured details. You're so creative and talented!
# | 広 | Wide | ひろ ; こう | Canopy + Private | The canopy you use in private is very wide. You want your private canopy to be wide so you can sprawl out under it as much as you want. No one's going to come in and tell you to close your legs or sit up straight. So it can be as wide as you like! You like being wide because it makes you feel like a different person. But not just any person, like a super hero (ひろ)! Picture yourself lying under your wide, private canopy pretending to be a super hero on the ground. You're stretching a nice, wide super hero pose, like you're flying through the sky.
# | 冬 | Winter | ふゆ ; とう | Winter + Two | We have the winter radical and the two radical (though it's sort of slanted). What's two times the winter radical, if radicals are just a part of a kanji? Two times would be enough to create the entire kanji, which is also winter. You could also think, "Winter too" instead of "two." Because, this kanji is in fact "winter too." Winter is the time of year you give out presents: "one fo' you, one fo'you. And... not you, this one's not fo' you so fu’ you! (ふゆ)! Note, be careful: this kanji is a little different from the radical 夂 though has the same meaning… but don’t let that fool you (ふゆ).
# | 竹 | Bamboo | たけ ; ちく | Bamboo | The bamboo radical and the bamboo kanji are exactly the same! Just make sure you know your radicals! Today is free bamboo day, so just take (たけ) all the bamboo you want. Really take as much bamboo as you could possibly hold. Take some bamboo, then take some more, and take more… It’s free after all.
# | 車 | Car | しゃ ; くるま | Car | The radical car and the kanji car are exactly the same. Make sure you study your radicals... though don't do it while driving. When we need to remember the reading しゃ, we use "shaman". There's a car. It's the nicest car you've ever seen. Exquisite, beautiful. Wouldn't you be surprised to learn it belongs to a shaman (しゃ)? Well it does. This shaman charges a premium for his shaman services so he can afford fancy cars like this. The more fantastic you make this car, the better. Also, feel the surprise of a shaman getting out of this car. What a cool dude that shaman is.
# | 央 | Center | おう | Center | The radical for center and the kanji for center are exactly the same. That means if you know your radicals well, you know the meaning of this kanji as well! How swell. This is the center of the 王's (おう) head so you have to be extra careful not to look anywhere else. The 王 will definitely cut off your normal-sized head if he sees you looking all over his big head and not at the center.
# | 写 | Copy | しゃ ; うつ | Forehead + Ground + Beggar | The forehead of this beggar is on the ground. Except it’s not exactly the ground, it’s a giant copy machine, and he’s making copies of his forehead! Picture how ridiculous this beggar looks, taking copies of his forehead with the ground copy machine. This ground copy machine can only be the work of one person: a shaman (しゃ)! This particular shaman’s specialty is being able to turn any surface into a copy machine at a swirl of his little shaman wand. Picture him running around in circles, doing a little dance and chant, and then the ground suddenly turning into one giant copy machine.
# | 仕 | Doing, Do | し ; つか | Leader + Samurai | The leader samurai didn't become leader by sitting around not taking action. He got to where he is by doing. Imagine the leader samurai doing things. He's doing more than anyone else, no one can keep up with what he's doing. He was doing things with sheep (し). He is the leader of the sheep clan, and he was able to do more with sheep than anyone else. That's why he's the leader. Picture the leader samurai doing lots of sheep things. He's shearing sheep. He's feeding sheep. He's doing everything you could possibly do, because he's the sheep samurai.
# | 耳 | Ear, Ears | みみ ; じ | Ear | The ear radical and ear kanji are the same in looks as well as meaning. Study those radicals hard to make sure you know your kanji as well! Put your hand to your ear and sing... "Mimimimimimiiiii!" (みみ) and listen to your tone with your ear. This is sort of a stereotypical singer sort of image. Make sure you concentrate a lot when you're listening to your mimimimiiii tone. In fact, why don't you do it out loud right now - make a little fool of yourself. It's fun, and it'll help you to remember!
# | 早 | Early, Fast, Quick | そう ; はや, さ | Sun + Cross | When the sun is over the cross it's time to go to church... which is so darn early. And if you want to get to church early, you need to be fast, otherwise you'll be too late. Imagine the sun coming up slowly, over the horizon. It then lines up with the cross, and at that moment, your alarm goes off, waking you up. You check the alarm clock, and instead of displaying the time, it just says EARLY and FAST on it, flashing in big red letters and alternating. To remember the そう reading we use the word "soul." When you're forced to get up fast and early you can feel it in your soul (そう). You're so tired and it's so early, your soul cries out, "Please don't make me go this fast this early. I'm gonna leave your body if you keep this up!" But you get your soul up early and head to the church fast anyway, because you're doing all of this for your soul in the first place!
# | 気 | Energy, Spirit | き, け | Energy + Treasure | You're looking for a treasure, but no normal treasure... a treasure that's a stash of energy. Not gold, money, or anything like that. Imagine yourself finding it, and opening up a treasure chest. Out bursts a spirit ball of energy like you've never seen. Try to touch the energy spirit, it's pretty amazing. Is it solid? Does it shock you? What does it feel like? Be sure to imagine it out. As you reach inside the energy spirit, you feel something hard inside. It's a large key (き) that gives you access to another treasure. You take the key and open another treasure that's nearby. Open it up and see what's inside. Imagine something spectacular.
# | 平 | Flat, Peace | へい, ひょう, びょう ; たい, ひら | Dry + Horns | If you want to dry your horns you need to lay them flat. If they aren't flat they'll always be a little damp somewhere and you'll never have a moment's peace. Imagine carefully taking off your horns and laying them flat on a paper towel. You have to smooth them out so they're as flat as possible. Being flat isn't enough, so you cover the whole thing in hay (へい). Hay absorbs water, so you add a flat layer of it. Imagine carefully laying a flat layer of hay on top of your flat horns. You feel really at peace and... you're tired now. You decided to lie on top of the hay and take a nap while you wait for your horns to dry.
# | 花 | Flower | はな ; か, け | Flowers + Leader + Spoon | All these flowers were planted by your leader with nothing but a spoon. Now the whole place is absolutely full with beautiful flowers. Flowers everywhere. Your leader is a nice guy who wants there to be flowers for even future generations to enjoy. That’s why he’s painstakingly planting all these flowers with his spoon. Imagine watching him dig hole after hole with his little spoon just to plant some flowers for everyone. But for some reason, the leader just can't stop planting flowers... He's going crazy. Maybe it's the pollen? Now there’s only one person that can save him: Hannah (はな). Hannah is the most reliable person you know. Whenever someone’s in any trouble, Hannah shows up and sets things right. Everyone needs a person like Hannah in their life. Especially the leader…
# | 足 | Foot, Leg, Sufficient | そく ; あし, た | Foot | The radical for foot and the kanji for foot are exactly the same. That being said, there's also another meaning you should keep in mind, which is sufficient. If you think about it, one foot should be sufficient enough to walk around with if you hop. Same kanjis and radicals make Jack a happy boy. You should also learn the other meaning as well, though, if you can. What do you wear on your foot? You wear a sock (そく). Just think about your bare feet. Think about them too much. Feel how cold it is on your feet. Now, put on a sock to make it feel better. Ahhh, so nice!
# | 打 | Hit | だ ; う, ぶ | Fingers + Street | Take your fingers to the street to hit some people! Street fingers are for curling into a fist. And that street fist wants to do some hitting! Imagine: it's just you, your fingers, and the wild street. It's hitting time! As you hit one chump after another, suddenly your dad (だ) comes marching out of your house. Uh oh. Dad caught you hitting, which, honestly, isn't a very nice thing to do, so he has every right to stop you. Now imagine your dad saying, "Don't do a hit!" over and over at you. "I'm sorry dad! But the streets were calling me!"
# | 穴 | Hole, Cave | あな ; けつ | Hole | The hole radical and the hole kanji are exactly the same! Spectacular!  Ana (あな) fell into a hole. Laugh at Ana and her unfortunate misfortune of having fallen into a hole like a ninny. Haha, Ana – you’re stupid and clumsy! Imagine yourself laughing at Ana while you point at her, continuing to jeer as Ana struggles to escape the hole. You’d help Ana out of the hole, but you’re too busy laughing at her.
*** | 百 | Hundred | ひゃく ; もも | Leaf + Sun | There is a leaf growing out of the sun! You fly out into space to check it out and when you get closer you see that it isn't just one leaf, it's a hundred! That makes sense, you wouldn't be able to see just one leaf on the sun from where you were on earth. Imagine flying toward the sun to see a hundred leaves growing together in the shape of one big leaf. You want to go closer! You fly closer, counting all one hundred leaves when you hear a strange sound. You take off your space helmet and hear, "GUH HYUCK (ひゃく)!" You know that laugh... it's Goofy! On top of the hundredth leaf is Goofy laughing and waving around. He must have built this leaf tower to get your attention. Imagine hearing Goofy guh-hyuck over and over after you save him from being stranded on the sun. How would you feel being stuck in a cramped ship with laughing Goofy and his hundred leaves? Oh, you thought he would leave those behind? Nope, they saved him so you have to take them back too. Happy travels!
# | 氷 | Ice | こおり ; ひょう | Drop + Water | Add a drop of something magical to water and suddenly it turns into big block of ice, just like that. Imagine yourself adding that drop. What is it exactly? Something pretty potent, that's for sure. Now go ahead and touch the block of ice... wow, it's really cold — and only from one drop, too. Feel the burn on your finger from where you touched the ice. When you think of ice, I want you to think of someone frozen with ice. Do you know anyone named Corey (こおり)? Anyone famous named Corey, perhaps Corey Feldman? Imagine this Corey person frozen solid with ice. How did this happen? Was it your fault? Imagine the situation that would get Corey frozen like this.
# | 虫 | Insect, Bug | むし ; ちゅう, き | Insect | The insect radical and insect are the same in looks as well as and meaning. It's times like these when you gotta hope you're studying your radicals! It's an insect! Get it! You squish it with your foot - what sound does it make? A mush (むし) sound. Imagine little words that say "mush" flying out from under your foot as you mush the poor thing. What does a "mush" sound sound like? You'll have to come up with something unique to yourself, and focus on it to remember this reading.
# | 男 | Man | だん, なん ; おとこ | Man | The radical for man and the kanji for man are exactly the same. That means if you know your radicals well, you know the meaning of this kanji too! Man, kanji are easy sometimes. When you think of a man, think of dawn (だん), because that man has to get up at dawn to power his rice paddy every day. Picture the man watching as the first light of dawn tints the sky pink and orange. Time to get to work, man!
# | 主 | Master, Main | しゅ ; おも, ぬし, あるじ | Master | The radical master and the kanji master have the same meanings! This kanji also means main because the master is the main person of a dojo or household or business.  Do you remember back to the radical mnemonic, where the master is floating a water drop above his head? Imagine back to there. Once you do, the most amazing thing happens. The master sends the drop of water into a chute (しゅ) and it goes careening through an intricate series of them. Picture this master of water controlling the droplet as it flies around inside these chutes, like he's solving a difficult puzzle with it. Astounding!
# | 名 | Name, Famous | めい, みょう ; な | Evening + Mouth | What is the evening mouth? Imagine a mouth that’s up in the night sky. It’s just there, talking, and only comes out at night. It only appears in one area of the world (what area would you choose? Imagine yourself going to that place to see the “night mouth.”), and appears only one month out of the year (more on this in a second). The “evening mouth” is the most famous thing in the _____ area (this is the area you choose). He’s so famous that everybody knows his name (“Evening Mouth.”). Imagine yourself going to the area you chose, and watching “Evening Mouth” speak. There are thousands of others there, wanting to see the giant floating mouth in the night sky. “Evening Mouth” then says “Everyone, what’s my name!?” and everyone shouts back “Evening Mouth!” in unison. “Evening Mouth” has certainly gotten really famous. So, when does “Evening Mouth” appear? Turns out, “Evening Mouth” only comes out to talk in May (めい). You know this because it’s just starting to be spring, and when you look around (you’re watching “Evening Mouth” again) you see some spring flowers come up. You know what they say. April showers bring May Flowers. What do May Flowers bring? They bring “Evening Mouth,” baby.
# | 不 | Not | ふ, ぶ | Not | The radical not and the kanji not are the same thing! That makes it easy... Not! Actually, it does make it easy - the radicals make kanji wayyy easier, no? To remember ふ we'll use the word "fool." Think of those jokes, where someone says something, then ends with a loud "NOTTTT!" Someone is doing that to you, over and over. What is that person? That person is a fool (ふ). Be sure to feel irritated at that person. Think in your head as they're telling these dumb "not" jokes how much of a fool they are... and how much of a fool you are for sitting here and listening to them.
# | 号 | Number | ごう | Mouth + Ground + Prison | There's a mouth in the ground (in our case, it's a hatch), and inside is some kind of prison you can't quite get to. If you've ever seen Lost, this will sound familiar... on the hatch, there's actually a series of numbers that you don't understand. What are these numbers? What do they mean? Think over it for a while, get frustrated, and try to figure it out. You can't, though, so you probably won't ever get inside. "You want to know the number to the hatch?" yells an old voice from inside. You say "yes," and the voice gives you the numbers and you're in! You go down into the prison, where there is one prisoner: Grandpa ごういち. Note: For the ごう reading mnemonics, we use Grandpa ごういち because こういち is used for the こう reading. So just remember that ごう comes from Koichi's grandpa ごういち. Grandpa ごういち keeps saying numbers as you free him from the prison. Just one after another. Numbers numbers numbers. Hopefully old man ごういち isn't crazy.
# | 元 | Origin | げん, がん ; もと | Origin | The origin radical and the origin kanji are the same! Know your radicals! The origin of everything can be found in Genji (げん). Genji is the name of the main character in the world's first ever novel, "The Tale of Genji." Picture him as a rich, pretty boy who cares a ton about his looks and gets along really well with all the ladies. He's also really great at poetry, which helps the lady situation. Genji's origin story is pretty important when it comes to mnemonics and Japanese literature. He's going to keep popping up on your kanji journey, so make sure you remember him!
# | 他 | Other | た ; ほか | Leader + Alligator | The leader of alligators... she's no ordinary leader, that's for sure. She's not a politician.. she's not a queen... She's one of the Other Ones, a group of strange, eccentric people who become leaders of animals. Imagine different groups of leaders - they're all dressed nice and normal. Then, off to the side are the leaders who are leaders of bears, cats, alligators, and narwhals... they're the other ones, no matter how you look at it. They are in their own group, and they are considered "others" because society won't accept them :( To remember the reading た, we use the word "Taco" Then there's the others of the others. These are the taco (た) worshipers. They're really strange. Just imagine the "others" shaking their heads at these taco worshipers. Seriously, what the heck?
# | 去 | Past | きょ, こ ; さ | Dirt + Private | If someone tries to dig up private dirt on you, tell them no thanks, that stuff is in the past. Some things should stay in the past. Not everyone needs to know everything about your life and your past. Keep your private dirt in the past. It's better for everyone. To remember the reading きょ, we'll use "Little Kyoto." This will differentiate きょ from きょう, which is regular-sized Kyoto. Get it? You decide to bury all this private dirt from your past in Little Kyoto (きょ). That stuff is from when you were just a little 子 (こ) and you don't like to think about it. Imagine physically, literally burying your past 子 self. If you hide it in Little Kyoto, no one will ever be able to dig it up.
# | 皿 | Plate, Dish | さら | Plate | The plate kanji and the plate radical are exactly the same, like two matching pieces of china. If you know your radicals, you know your kanji too. The person washing all the dishes was named Sarah (さら). She was named that because of her large head, which was shaped like Sarah Jessica Parker’s head (very big). Imagine someone with a huge head, washing dishes. When I say huge, I mean huge. She turns towards you with her big head and says “Hi, I’m Sarah” and you see her name tag, which also says Sarah. She is Sarah, the dish washer. The plates she holds up next to her head pale in comparison, even though they're the biggest pieces.
# | 先 | Previous, Ahead, Past, Former | せん ; さき, ま | Slide + Dirt + Legs | Slide some dirt on your legs so you can feel like you're from a previous time. Everything from the past is in the dirt. Dead people, dinosaur bones, your mom's secrets in a box from her past life. All these things come back to you as you slide the dirt all over your legs. Imagine the feeling of dirt on your legs. Now think back to the previous day. The previous year. The previous century. As you sit there, pretending you're in a previous time you see a centaur (せん)! That's right! Centaurs are from wayyyy in the past. Centaurs were definitely real in the past. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. They're just afraid of the truth.
# | 赤 | Red | あか ; せき | Red | The radical for red and the kanji for red are the same thing! What a lucky ducky - as long as you know your radicals, you'll know this kanji's meaning as well! This kanji means red, AKA, also known as, あか. Think of あか as being some sort of alias for "red." That's why its pronounced あか in Japanese, AKA "red."
*** | 休 | Rest | きゅう ; やす | Leader + Tree | The leader is next to the tree. What is he doing? He's leaning against it, resting. The best thing to do with a tree is rest under it. Picture the leader resting under the tree with his eyes half closed. As he rests, he suddenly gets hungry and pulls a cucumber (きゅう) off the tree and bites into it. A good rest isn't complete without some crunchy tree cucumbers. Don't email me saying cucumbers don't grow on trees. Cucumber trees exist. Look them up and then rest easy knowing I'd never lie to you.
# | 申 | Say Humbly | もう ; しん | Cross + Mouth | There’s a cross in your mouth, so the things you say are very pious. Everything you say, you say humbly. Imagine yourself with a cross in your mouth, saying all kinds of humble things. "Oh no, I'm not that good." "Oh no, my mustache doesn't look that great." As you're saying all these humble things, you're also mowing (もう) your neighbor's lawn. Your neighbors love you so much, because you're so humble, and you mow their lawn for them. Imagine mowing your neighbor's lawn while you say humbly how bad you are at mowing lawns. What a good neighbor you are.
# | 見 | See | み ; けん | See | The radical see and the kanji see are exactly the same! Make sure you're studying your radicals. If you do, you'll know a lot of kanji as well, almost magically! You see something. It's walking towards you, but you need to see better. When the person comes close, you realize "That person is me (み)!" The struggling to see bit is pretty important - make sure that you slowly see a little better and better as the person comes closer, but it's difficult the whole time (struggles are good for memory). Then, it starts to become more and more clear, and you start saying "that can't be me. No way it's me..." When the person comes up to you (the person, being you) you learn about parallel universes and other fabulous things. Still, the whole time you can't stop thinking about how "this person looks just like me... no, this person is me!"
# | 貝 | Shellfish, Shell | かい ; ばい | Shellfish | The shellfish radical and the shellfish kanji are the same! It can be just the shell part too. Shellfish are shellfish, you know? To get some shellfish, all you have to do is hop in your kayak (かい) and get some. Shellfish live in the water. Imagine rowing your kayak out into the ocean to collect shellfish. Imagine the color and shape of the kayak. Feel the spray of the salt water and the taste of some fresh shellfish, right out of the ocean.
# | 石 | Stone | せき ; いし | Stone | The stone radical and stone kanji are the same thing! Know your radicals and therefore know your kanji. It's just that simple. You throw a stone through a window... and, now you can see something very sexy (せき). Whoops, maybe you shouldn't throw stones through windows or you'll see people's sexy times.
# | 礼 | Thanks, Etiquette | れい | Spirit + Umbrella | What do you get if you lend a spirit your umbrella? Thanks, of course! Especially if that spirit is Totoro, the spirit of the forest. It's raining, so you lend Totoro your umbrella. As a thanks, he gives you a present wrapped in bamboo leaves. So what did you receive as a thanks? You open it up, and there's a ray (れい) gun inside! Thanks for the new ray gun, Totoro!
# | 糸 | Thread | いと ; し | Thread | The thread radical and thread are the same in looks as well as in meaning. This is why it's good to make sure you know your radicals. You have some thread... what's the first thing you do with it? You take it and put it in your mouth, and start sucking it down like spaghetti. You have decided to eat (いと) the thread. Think about how it tastes. Think about how it feels in your throat. Let it get caught on your teeth and around your tongue. It's a weird feeling having thread in your mouth, and you want to use that weird feeling to remember you're going to eat it.
# | 町 | Town | ちょう ; まち | Rice Paddy + Street | When you see both a rice paddy and a street in the same place, you have the makings of a whole town! Think about it, a single farm wouldn't need a whole street. Just paths would do. There is a street next to this rice paddy, so there must be other people, which makes this a town. You go to visit this nice little town. But then, there she is... Every time you walk down the street, the street-woman Mrs. Chou (ちょう) arrives to ruin your day. Remember imagining Mrs. Chou in great detail in level 2? Time for some of that work to come to fruition. Imagine Mrs. Chou walking down the street of the town towards you, ready to make your day bad. She breaks things as she walks towards you, then knocks you down for walking around in her town. She says, "Wherever there's a street, you'll find Mrs. Chou." Then spits on your back as she walks away.
# | 宝 | Treasure | ほう ; たから | Roof + King + Drop | Under his roof, the king stares into a drop of water containing his greatest treasure. Just kidding, the king has way more treasure than that. The drop of water is just reflecting what's around him: mounds and mounds of treasure, stacked all the way up to the roof. Picture the treasure reflected in the drop of water. It's marvelous! All of this treasure is kept in the king's home (ほう). He can't let other people see how much treasure he has, or they'll get mad. Or worse, ask him to share some with his people. Yuck. The treasure stays at home. Picture his home from the outside. It looks like a normal, small castle. But then you walk in and it's a treasure trove of... well, treasure!
# | 村 | Village | むら ; そん | Tree + Measurement | Someone’s taking measurements of the trees… Why is someone taking measurements of trees? These people are planning to take the trees and cut them down to make their village. There is a whole group of people out there who are measuring these trees. Imagine them asking each other “do you think this will be a good tree for our village center?” and other people nodding in agreement or disagreement as they measure. They take all the wood back to where they're building their village and once they construct the village center they paint a mural (むら) on the side of it. The mural is of the forest where they got the tree from so they remember the building's origins. Look at the mural on the side of this newly constructed village center. So many trees! Visualize the whole process as the tree becomes a building as you gaze and reflect on the message of the mural.
# | 世 | World, Generation | せい, せ ; よ | World | The world radical and the world kanji are the same, but there is another really important meaning you need to know: generation. Think of it this way: the world is just made up of many different generations of people, plants, and animals all getting along together. It's all these generational differences that make the world go 'round! It's your job to protect the world and every generation with your special saber (せい). It was given to you to uphold correctness, and you'll pass it on to the next generation when it's time. Then they'll watch out for the world when you're gone. Hold the saber up high and pledge to protect the world for all of the generations to come! Then swish it around and make buzzing sounds with your mouth.
# | 年 | Year | ねん ; とし | Gun + Cow | The cow part of this kanji is slightly altered, but I think you can see where it is. The gun looks just fine, though. Think back to a fake memory you have living on the farm. You have your gun, and you gotta use it on a cow (ruh roh). Once a year on New Year's, you have to go out and shoot one of the cows. It's only a yearly shooting, though, so at least there's that respite. You'll have to imagine yourself doing this to remember the meaning of the kanji. Focus on the thought that "okay... it's only once a year... I only have to do this once a year..." It is New Years, though, so when you bring the dead cow back home, it’s time to celebrate. Using the cow’s organs and bones, you and your siblings construct a nendoroid (ねん). Nendoroids are Japanese toys - little plastic figurines (Google it if need be). You make a little cow nendoroid holding a gun. How cute. How funny that you use dead cow parts to make a miniature cow holding a gun much like the one you murdered earlier. Imagine yourself playing with this nendoroid as you think about how weird it was to make a cow nendoroid out of a dead cow.
# | 角 | Angle, Corner, Antler | かく ; かど, つの | Prison + Task | In prison, your task is to bend things into different angles and then put them in the corner. No one will tell you why you're doing this, but you get a couple cents an hour to do it, so you aren't going to complain. Picture yourself sitting in a corner, bending pieces of metal and scrap to fit the angle of that corner. To get the angle right you find that you have to cock (かく) your head to the side a lot. After cocking your head at weird angles so much you also start to hear cocks crowing in your head. Cock-co-cock-co-caww! Imagine cocking your head to different angles and hearing cocks crow every time you do. Prison isn't as fun as you thought it would be. Manual labor and loud chickens aren't what you expected.
# | 斤 | Axe, Bread Loaf Counter | きん | Axe | The axe radical and the axe kanji are exactly the same, with one minor difference. This kanji is also used as the bread loaf counter, probably because bread was so big and hard in the past that they had to use axes to slice them. Imagine you've gone back in time a good hundred years, and you're trying to count loaves of bread after each swing of your axe. Axes and bread loaves will become intertwined in your brain. You imagined being back in time too good and now you're stuck using an axe to be a bread loaf counter for the King (きん) of England. You aren't sure which king he is or when in time you are, but he's mean and keeps eating all the bread you cut up with your axe. Imagine being stuck using an axe on bread while the King of England glares down at you, munching and spilling crumbs everywhere.
# | 青 | Blue, Young | せい, しょう ; あお | Blue | The blue radical and the blue kanji are exactly the same. Additionally, this can also mean young. You can remember this because young people have potential as limitless as the blue sky! Don't feel blue, you should know this kanji automagically! You've been feeling really blue. Mostly because your skin, hair, and eyes have all turned blue. It was an out-of-the-blue transformation! But now someone places his hand on your shoulder and points at your saber (せい). It's blue too! You aren't alone! You aren't sure how you or the saber turned blue, but at least you and your saber are a good match now, I guess.
# | 体 | Body | たい, てい ; からだ | Leader + Book | The leader has a book all about the human body. Knowing about bodies is a privilege. One that only leaders get—it helps them control all their subjects, like you. Imagine looking down at your body and thinking, huh, I wonder what all that junk is? Oh well, I'm sure the leader has it all figured out in that book of hers. The leader's body book also taught her about something very body specific: how to tie a tie (たい). You can't have a tie on your body, no no. Those are for the leader and her smart body. Picture the leader, reading a book, putting a tie on her body. Look around at you and your family and your neighbors. You don't know what your body meat-bags do and you don't know how to tie a tie. Womp womp.
# | 色 | Color | いろ ; しき, しょく | Color | The color radical and color are the same in looks as well as in meaning. Color me pink! This kanji's super easy if you know your radicals. You already have color on the mind because you know the meaning of this kanji, so think of something colorful about yourself. Imagine your ear (いろ) being a weird color... green, purple, red, whatever. Just make it really bright and standing out. You can even have someone ask you about your ear... "Is your ear okay? I think it's the color blue..."
# | 来 | Come, Next | らい ; く, き | Ground + Rice | There's rice spread out all over the ground. This will cause the Predator to come because he loves kome (rice). Then once he's gone, the next Predator will come to eat. Also imagine everyone else coming to the rice next. When rice spills, people come from all around to line up and grab a handful of it to take home. Who's next? Come forward! When they come, though, everyone is disappointed. It turns out it's rye (らい) grains, and rye grains taste terrible. Yuck. If you love rye grains, on the other hand, imagine everyone being really happy that they came to get the rice. They're so lucky it's rye!
# | 社 | Company | しゃ ; やしろ | Spirit + Dirt | Plant a spirit in the dirt before you start your company and it will be successful. That's what all the great, old Japanese companies did back in the olden days. That's why companies like Mitsubishi have been around for hundreds of years. They planted a spirit in the dirt to help their company grow, and grow it did! Picture a young person way back in old-timey history times burying the spirit of one of their ancestors in the dirt. Now watch as an old-timey time lapse plays out in front of your eyes and a company is born! Where did you learn about this method of company growing? From a shaman (しゃ), of course. Shamans aren't just spouting nonsense, they know what they're talking about. And spirits are right up their shaman alley. Imagine going to a shaman and having them tell you that for your company to be successful you need to bury a spirit in the dirt so it can help the company grow. You should probably listen.
# | 当 | Correct, Right, Success | とう ; あ | Triceratops + Wolverine | There's a triceratops and a wolverine. What are they doing together? You'd think they'd fight, but they took their battle to another venue... they're competing in a game show! One of them answers a question, and the host says, "Success! You're correct!" Feel free to think through several questions and answers, but make sure they're all right, because that's what we're focusing on. Also make sure to focus on the triceratops and the wolverine themselves. You want to make sure that when you see these two radicals you automatically know they're playing in a game show, not doing anything else, like fighting or racing or something. When we need to remember the reading とう, we use the Japanese city Tokyo. The last question in the game show match is the following: "What is the capital of Japan." The triceratops and the wolverine scream the correct answer at the same time: とうきょう! Wow, that was a pretty easy answer to get right. とうきょう is what pretty much everyone would guess, and they'd be correct.
# | 図 | Diagram | ず, と ; え, はか | Mouth + Ice + Treasure | You have a mouth full of ice and… treasure?! Upon closer inspection, it appears to depict some sort of diagram. Scientists have spent decades trying to figure out what the diagram of ice and treasure in your mouth could mean, but to no avail. Imagine the pain of having to spend your entire life with a mouth full of ice and treasure… poor you. After decades of analyzing the diagram, scientists found out it leads to… a zoo (ず)?! Now you’re stuck at this zoo with your diagram mouth full of ice and treasure. Scientists think this can’t be it, so further research will be required. Your diagram mouth of ice and treasure isn’t off the hook quite yet. Just a few more years, spent at this zoo! I promise!
# | 毎 | Every, Each | まい ; ごと | Gun + Window | You see some windows... you have a gun. What do you think you're going to do with this gun? Of course, you're going to shoot the windows... every single one of them. Each and every one. Make a point to make sure you get every one, and don't miss any of them. Actually search around in your imagination for any more windows, because you want to stress it's important you hit each and every window with your gun. Now that each and every window is broken you feel pretty stupid because a bunch of mice (まい) come pouring in through them. You've made a way for them to get into your house. That wasn't smart. Now you need to shoot every one of the mice that came through those broken windows. You can't let any survive. You have to get every last one out of here!!
# | 羽 | Feather, Feathers, Wing, Wings | はね, は, わ ; う | Feathers | The feather radical and feather are the same in looks as well as in meaning. Have you been studying your radicals? If so, this'll be easy! All these feathers. You're a bird man / woman, and you're getting ready to fly. Just as you're about to take off, someone dumps you with honey はね and you're all goopy, unable to go anywhere. Taste the honey, feel it all over your feathers. Go ahead and plummet towards the ground (because you were jumping off a building to fly when someone doused you with honey). At least it's a tasty way to go, no?
# | 林 | Forest, Grove | はやし ; りん | Tree | You have a tree and another tree. You basically have yourself a forest! Follow the logic of this one and you should be okay. So, now you have this forest and you want to cut it down (so much money!). But, you don't have any tools, only your hands. You think... I've done karate for a while, so I can probably chop it down that way. You get in a chopping stance, then do your battle cry and hit: "HAYA ... .SHI******!" (はやし) Obviously that didn't work well - you'll want to focus on your battle cry plus indecent swearing right afterwards to remember this reading.
# | 行 | Go | こう, ぎょう ; い, おこな, ゆ | Go | The go radical and the go kanji are exactly the same! If you know your radicals well enough (and you do), you'll know this kanji. "Oh, did he go again?" When こういち is not around, that's what people often say because he goes to the gyoza (ぎょう) restaurant almost every day. こういち just loves gyoza so much, you always know where he is when he is not home. Remember, whenever we see the reading こう, think of こういち, a founder of WaniKani (who loves gyoza). We'll keep it consistent, so over time you should develop a character around こういち that you learn to love or hate.
# | 金 | Gold | きん, こん ; かね, かな | Gold | The gold radical and the gold kanji are the same! Just know your radicals and you'll be golden, so to speak. The most gold in the land belongs to the King (きん) of England. In fact, you've never actually met someone with gold, it all goes straight to the King whenever someone finds some. You just have a few pennies to work with. Picture the King on a huge pile of gold. Gold coins, gold candelabras, gold ponies. He's laughing and pointing at all of it while making very strong eye contact with you.
# | 草 | Grass, Weed | くさ ; そう | Flowers + Sun + Cross | You plant your flowers in the light of the sun in the shape of a cross, but it's too hot—the sun is too strong—and you end up with grass. Flowers can't grow in these conditions. Think of how disappointed you are. You wanted a beautiful cross of flowers, and now you just have a big overgrown patch of thick grass. It isn't even pretty green grass, it's a little brown and damaged from the sun. The grass on top is brown and burned from the sun, so you need to take a cool saw (くさ) and hack the tops off. The saw is actually physically cool to the touch, to help heal the grass' sunburned bits. It just happens to look cool too. Imagine using your cool saw to saw off the heads of all of this grass. You made the cross pretty big, so there is a ton of grass to get through. The sun is beating down on you and the grass too, which isn't making it any easier.
# | 里 | Hometown, Village | さと ; り | Village | The village you always think of first is your hometown. Why would you ever talk about the village where someone else was born? Answer: you wouldn't. Everything is always about you. Your hometown is where you sat (さと), nostalgia tugging at your heartstrings amid the endless rice fields and dirt. Visualize yourself sitting in your hometown, the village's rustic charm evoking nostalgia.
# | 作 | Make | さく, さ ; つく | Leader + Key | The leader's key is the key that makes all the other keys. It's sort of like the one ring to rule them all, the one ring to bind them... except with keys. Imagine the leader taking his key to open up a safe that has a button to make other keys for the underlings. No key is as great as this key, though. The leader makes all the keys and puts them in a sack (さく) to distribute them to the underlings, who then saw (さ) them into shape. Imagine the leader making the keys and dropping them one by one into a big sack. He's always walking around carrying a big sack over his shoulder, distributing the keys to his underlings and watching them saw them into shape.
# | 多 | Many, Much, Lots Of | た ; おお | Evening | How many evenings are there? There are many. If you accidentally think "a lot" or something similar, that's okay too. It's the basic meaning that counts, and all these things are pretty close, though eventually you want to get to the point where you know that this kanji does in fact mean many. To remember the reading た we use the word "taco." Let's start with the kanji meaning: many. You go outside in the evening (because that's what this kanji is made up of) and are surprised when you're hit by many tacos (た) flying from the sky. For some reason it's raining tacos, and of course you have no idea why. The tacos pelt you and knock you off your feet. Hard shell, soft shell, meat, lettuce, tomatoes, cheese... it's terrible. And there are so many of them, flying from the sky to drown you in tacos. This is absolutely absurd (and you should think that too, so you remember the reading).
# | 肉 | Meat | にく | Meat | The meat radical and meat are the same in looks as well as in meaning. Study those radicals, and perhaps we'll eat some meat tonight. You know there's people-eating going on here, with this kanji. So, when you think of this meat, you'll have to think about whose meat it is. In this case, it's Nick's (にく) meat. Do you know someone named Nick you can imagine? There's celebrities too, if you don't have someone. Someone like Nick Cage would do the trick.
# | 会 | Meet, Meeting | かい ; あ | Meet | The meet radical and the meet kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! What better way to meet new people than to start kayaking (かい)! Get into your kayak and just float out into the water. You'll eventually bump into someone else in a kayak and boom, you're meeting someone new! "I met my soulmate in a kayak," said Koichi.
# | 交 | Mix, Mingle | こう ; まじ, ま, か | Lid + Father | You put a lid on your father. But, he won't taste good alone, so you mix in some other ingredients. They mingle inside the pot with him. This may seem traumatic, but actually your father is surprisingly into it. Imagine him mixed in with all kinds of other things. It's important to note that this kanji is about things being mixed in, not so much about the action of mixing. That's another kanji. With a mix of your father and other ingredients mingling in your cooking pot, you lift up the lid... your father pops up. Your father is こういち. He stares back at you with a big smile. "I love mixing in with potatoes and tomatoes," your father こういち states. "Turn up that temperature. I like to mingle with a bit more tingle."
# | 近 | Near, Close | きん, こん ; ちか | Scooter + Axe | Someone on a scooter has an axe, and they're getting near to you really fast! Oh no, they're so close now, you need to get out of here! Picture a scooter coming toward you in the dark. You see the gleam of the axe as it looms nearer and nearer. As they draw near, you recognize who is riding the scooter: the King (きん) of England! Behind him, a bunch of his guards also on scooters and wielding axes appear and move close to you. The King is now so near to you his nose and mustache are tickling your face. He's holding the axe high above his head and saying, "I can get as close to you as I want and you can't stop me because I'm the King. I can get sooooo close. Look, I'm not touching you though!"
# | 兄 | Older Brother, Big Brother, Elder Brother | きょう, けい ; あに, にい | Mouth + Legs | Who's someone who's just a mouth with legs? That's your know-it-all older brother, who won't shut up about anything. To help this mnemonic along, literally imagine your older brother as someone that's just a giant mouth with a pair of legs walking around. It talks and talks and talks, too, irritating you. Feel the irritation specifically at your older brother. He's older than you, so you can't beat him up... yet. You wish you could box your loud-mouth older brother up and send him far away to きょうと. きょうと is super far away from where you currently live, so just ship your older bro off so he can never bother you again. Hmm... don't you want to go to きょうと someday? Maybe you should have sent your brother somewhere less cool.
# | 豚 | Pig | ぶた ; とん | Moon + Pig | When the moon is bright, it's easy to see that a pig is indeed a pig. Imagine walking outside at night and seeing a strange oinking animal. You think it's a pig, but just to be sure you grab that thing and hold it up to the moonlight. Yes, definitely a pig! Now you know. Legend has it that if you catch a pig in moonlight, it will tell you its secrets. Sure enough, this pig tells you it's from Bhutan (ぶた). A pig from Bhutan?! Yes, all pigs are actually from Bhutan, it whispers. Then this Bhutan pig escapes your grip and trots off into the moonlight.
# | 雨 | Rain | あめ, あま ; う | Rain | The radical for rain and the kanji for rain are the same thing. Make sure you know your radicals! What if the rain actually tried to aim (あめ) for you? As in, drops would move out of their normal flight path just to hit you on your head? You'd be a lot wetter, that's for sure. Imagine a world where each rain drop had to choose a target to aim for. How strange would rainfall be? Also, あめ and "aim" don't really sound too much alike, but the goal is to use "aim" to get to あめ, so make sure to take note of that in your mind as you learn the reading.
# | 米 | Rice, America | べい, まい ; こめ | Rice | The rice radical and rice are the same in looks as well as in meaning. This also refers to "America," maybe because America is covered in rice or fields or something? Aren't radicals nice? They make things so much easier... if you've been studying them. You've got tons of dry grains of rice. You have no idea what you're going to do with it. Then, you come up with a solution. All this dry rice could go towards filling up the bay (べい), so you have more land to farm on! In your mind, bulldoze the rice into the bay, watching it fill it up, then pile high. It's not particularly good looking land, but it'll do, and it's already full of seeds, so that's pretty good. The important thing is that you think you have way too much of the stuff, so the only way to get rid of it is to dump it in a large body of water, and that large body of water is a bay.
# | 走 | Run | そう ; はし | Run | The radical run and the kanji run are exactly the same! Make sure you know your radicals! You run and run and run and suddenly you feel your soul (そう) leave your body. Still running, you turn around and see your soul running a few steps behind you. Running really takes it out of you. In this case, it takes your soul out of you. Don't worry, when you stop your soul will collide with you again and everything will be okay. (Probably.)
# | 同 | Same | どう ; おな | Mustache + Ground | There's a mustache on the ground. Upon closer inspection, you see that the mustache on the ground is exactly the same as yours! Pick up the mustache, hold it up next to your face in front of a mirror. It's unbelievable, but it's the same in every way, down to the last hair. When we need to remember the reading どう, we use the word "doughnut". While this is already strange enough, you notice something stranger. Over a couple feet away is a doughnut (どう) who also has the same mustache as you (and the one that fell on the ground). The doughnut looks at you for a moment, then scampers off. This doughnut must be a mutant because normally doughnuts don't move. If it helps, imagine hundreds or thousands of doughnuts all around you with the same exact mustache. First of all, it's terrifying to be surrounded by thousands of mutant doughnuts. Secondly, it's really weird they all have the same mustache as you.
# | 言 | Say | げん, ごん ; い, こと | Say | The say radical and the say kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! If you aren't sure what to say, just think about Genji (げん) and ask yourself, "What would Genji say?" Genji is a real smooth talker. In fact, he can talk his way out of anything. If you can just stay calm and think "What would Genji say?" before saying anything, you'll probably end up saying something cool instead of something lame.
# | 自 | Self, Oneself | じ, し ; みずか | Self | The self radical and self are the same in looks as well as in meaning. Radicals have self. Kanji has self. Kanji and radicals can sometimes be the same thing... so do they really have "self"? Only way to find out is to study both of them hard! When we need to remember じ we use the word "Jesus." Who said you should always look at your self before tossing stones (or whatever) at others? Jesus (じ) did. So, make sure you look at your own self before being a jerk. You can feel free to do some introspection here.
# | 形 | Shape, Form, Appearance | けい, ぎょう ; かた, かたち | Lantern + Hair | You're walking at night when you discover a lantern covered entirely in hair, making it a very strange shape. In fact, this is a form you'd never expect a lantern to take. Picture all the different shapes this hairy lantern could take in your mind. You stare at the shape until you finally recognize it: cake (けい)! Well, it's hairy, glowing cake, but it's still shaped like a big slice of cake. Picture the shape of this hairy, glowing cake.
# | 皮 | Skin | ひ ; かわ | Slide + Branch | Slide down a branch and your skin will come off. Unlike what Tarzan will make you believe, you can't just slide around on branches, they're rough and painful and if you do it your skin will come sliding off and it will hurt. Imagine sliding down a slide made of a big, branch. The branch's bark digs into your skin and pulls it right off of your body. Without your skin to protect you, you feel the full heat (ひ) from the friction of your body going down the branch slide. Your skin protects you from really feeling lots of heat. It gets burned before you and it has many tiny layers to keep you safe from heat generating things like the sun. You really need your skin!
# | 空 | Sky, Empty | くう ; そら, あ, から, す | Hole + Construction | What was the biggest hole in the construction of the world? The sky. If you think about it, the sky is like a big hole someone forgot to fill in. That's why this kanji also means empty! Makes sense — nothing is more empty than the sky. Next time you look up at the sky, try to imagine it's a big empty hole you're stuck at the bottom of. The sky is usually empty until clouds stage a coup (くう). Basically you can think of the sky as the site for one coup after another as the weather changes. First the sky's cloudy, then it's clear and empty, then overcast again... Just coup after coup!
# | 音 | Sound | おん ; おと, ね | Stand + Sun | For some reason, you are standing on the sun. It's obviously very hot, but the thing you notice most is the sound of you burning up. Imagine a super loud sizzling sound, drowning everything else out. It's ridiculously loud, and hurts your ears more than the sun's heat hurts your skin. This sound isn't just loud, it's familiar. Finally you place it: onions (おん)! Your burning body sounds just like sizzling, crispy onions being fried in a pan. Listen close. It's exactly the same! You can almost smell onions too!
# | 学 | Study, Learn, Learning | がく ; まな | Viking + Child | You have a wild viking child you have to take care of. He won't do anything but study, surprisingly. You can't get him to eat, use the bathroom, or anything else. He just wants to study. Of course, this isn't what you'd expect of a little viking child. It's the opposite. That's why it's so surprising! He loves to study! This crazy viking child who prefers study over pillaging (and other viking activities)... the other vikings just stop and gawk (がく) at him when they walk by. You should tell the other vikings to stop gawking at this child. Just because he likes to study doesn't mean he's a bad viking...
# | 代 | Substitute, Replace, Period, Age | だい, たい ; か, かわ, よ, しろ | Leader + Ceremony | The leader for the ceremony can't come so you need a substitute to replace them ASAP! This kanji has another meaning too. The leader can't come to the ceremony because they forgot what period of time it was. If they think they're in the wrong age, they won't come because they're trying to lead some monkeys in the ceremony instead. Picture the leader of the ceremony out back, unsure of what period or age they're in, while the substitute leader walks in and stares at them in shock. The substitute leader is wearing the wrong color clothes, so you have to dye (だい) them, like they did in the olden ages. Now you're out back with the original leader and the substitute leader, trying to dye the color of this stupid shirt to match that one.
# | 光 | Sunlight, Light | こう ; ひかり, ひか | Triceratops + Pi | You see a triceratops in the distance. But, it's odd. It's perfectly pi shaped (that is, circular). Some kind of piceratops, if you will. The reason they are this shape is because they want to absorb as much sunlight (or just light is fine, too) as possible. They evolved to be round so they don't have any corners casting a shadow. Absorbing sunlight is natural for reptiles, after all. And a round one can absorb even more light. Imagine it sitting in a round spot of sun, enjoying the warmth. What a rare sight you've come across! As you watch this majestic beast absorbing sunlight, suddenly several dozen feral (こういち)s burst from various hiding spots, spears in hand. Oh no! Those こういちs are hunting this rare piceratops! Imagine many different (but also kind of the same) こういちs attacking and throwing spears at the piceratops. But, because it was able to charge up in the sunlight, it uses its powers to shoot light in all directions, rendering all the こういちs momentarily blind, allowing it to escape.
# | 考 | Think, Consider | こう ; かんが | Coffin + Beggar | In a coffin is someone begging. But, it won't work. You won't listen. So, the man in the coffin just begins to think: What could I have done better in my life? Why am I in this situation? How will I get out? Think, damnit, think!! Imagine him changing from a begging position to a stereotypical "thinking" position, hand on chin, eyebrows furrowed. Focus on the beggar's thinking. This is a pretty abstract idea to imagine, so it will be important to create a very vivid picture in your mind's eye. What is the beggar thinking of? A thought bubble pops up into existence near his head. In it is a picture of こういち! He's thinking that if こういち was here, he'd save him. Oh, if only こういち could save us all! Then, the beggar realizes that he is こういち. You're burying こういち in a coffin alive and all he can think of is himself.
# | 回 | Times, Revolve | かい ; まわ | Mouth | There's a mouth inside a mouth. But if you look even closer (not actually, but we're pretending), you can see another mouth inside that mouth... and another one inside of that one! It keeps going and going. Can you count the number of times there's a mouth inside a mouth? This kanji also means revolve too. Think of each "time" a thing happens, it loops back around and comes back to the beginning, revolving around again another time. Imagine yourself counting and counting smaller and smaller mouths inside of each other, recording the number of times you can find a mouth inside another mouth. Dig deeper and deeper until it feels ridiculous how small the mouths are getting. Be sure to focus on the counting and the number of times you find one. Now, how many mouths is this times two, because your mouth is like this too. If you're having a hard time wrapping your head around the infinite number of times these mouths revolve, just picture yourself in a little kayak (かい) going around and down through the mouths. Your kayak is slashing and dipping through the revolving mouths, going down and down more times than you can count!
# | 谷 | Valley | たに, や ; こく; せ | Fins + Hat + Mouth | There's a hat decorated with fins and (presumably fish) mouths on it. Who wears strange hats like this? Turns out, the valley people are the ones who wear these. I'm talking about the "Valley Girls" of California, Hollywood / LA. They're into the crazy fashion, and they'll wear anything if it's deemed "cool" or something like that. Imagine a bunch of Valley Girls walking around with these strange hats. Fins and fish mouths... what a strange new fad. Hanging around with all the Valley Girls in the sunny area of LA is also a robot. It's WALL-E's distant (and lazy, lounging) relative, TAN-E (たに). He sits around getting a tan in LA with the Valley Girls while his cousin picks up trash. What a jerk he is. Imagine the deep tan lines on TAN-E as well. He's the epitome of robot laziness.
# | 声 | Voice | こえ ; せい | Samurai + Flag + Stick | You have a samurai with a flag on a stick. On his flag is the symbol 声, the kanji for voice. Why does he have that there? He feels like his Shogun isn't giving him and his fellow Samurai a voice, so he's brought a flag with the word "voice" written on it to protest. Imagine him and the other samurai with their flags on sticks, waving them around shouting things like "We want a voice!”, “Give us a voice!” You decide to join the samurai’s protest for more voice but immediately notice… they’re all 子, eh (こえ)?! Imagine your surprise at seeing this large protest of 子 samurai, shouting for their voices to be heard. Really make sure you can hear yourself going “You’re a 子, eh?!” in your head.
# | 西 | West | せい, さい ; にし | West | The west radical and the west kanji are the same. Isn't that nice? Make sure you know all those radicals, will make your life more pleasant. People are attacking from the West, so you pull out your saber (せい) and beat them back. You keep pushing further and further West until you reach the ocean and there's nowhere left for them to run. Picture yourself fighting your way West, your saber shining in the light of the sun as it sets in front of you. You'll protect your home from the West if it takes everything you and your saber have left!
# | 何 | What | なに, なん ; か | Leader + Lip Ring | Our leader has a lip ring. Wait, our leader has a lip ring? WHAT?? Think of our president (or your prime minister, or dictator, or whatever) and imagine this person appearing on television one morning with a big ol' lip ring. Feel surprised by it. Just say "What??" over and over again. You want to have the feeling of "what" in you when you imagine this - that'll help you to remember this kanji's meaning. The leader with his lip ring is now eating some naan (なん) and curry. It's delicious, of course... but then he gets it caught on his lip ring, and tears half his lip off. He screams: "Nannnnn eeeeeeeeeehhh!!" (なに) in anger at the naan and curry. Make this one vivid and scary. He's eating the naan (that's your なん), and then he screams at the naan but gets overwhelmed with pain (that's the なに). Smell the naan (you're there) and see the blood gushing out of his/her lip. It's terrifying. How did the naan even catch on his lip ring anyways?
# | 麦 | Wheat, Barley, Oats | むぎ ; ばく | Life + Winter | The life radical is without the slide (as it sometimes is), but when you combine that with the winter radical, you have life during winter. What gives you life during the winter? It's the wheat you store away. Imagine you're starving. It's cold and you've run out of food. You don't know what you're going to do. If you don't find something, you'll lose your life. Then, you break open a barrel, and wheat pours out. It's beautiful. You just found some life in the middle of winter. You found your wheat. Thank God. You'll survive. You have to take the wheat back to your house, though. On your way, you get mugged (むぎ). Imagine the disappointment. You go from finding life to losing it all... now you have no hope for the winter :( Also, keep in mind that むぎ and mug aren't super-alike, so you'll have to use it to get  close enough to remember the actual reading, むぎ.
# | 弟 | Younger Brother, Little Brother | だい, で, てい ; おとうと | Horns + Bow + Stick + Slide | There is someone with a bow and a stick, wearing horns, going down a slide. What type of person do you imagine? I'd say someone who's an immature boy. That would be your younger brother. Just pretend you have a younger brother for now, even if you don't. Also be sure to imagine this person really vividly. He is a stereotypical little boy, playing dress up with horns and a bow and stick (he can't have an arrow, that's dangerous), and he's going down a slide too. Your younger brother loves playing dress up so much that he's now started dyeing (だい) his hair all kinds of colors. Imagine the bright red, blue, green and purple dye in his hair. Imagine the bright red, blue, green and purple dye in your younger brother's hair. He's put so much on that he's dyed half his face too. He's going to be in trouble when he gets home!
# | 全 | All, Whole | ぜん ; すべ, まった | Hat + King | Kings with hats. Did you know that all kings wear hats? Think of as many kings as you can think of. Guess what, every single one of them (aka all of them) wear hats! Think of strange hats, funny hats, and normal hats. Just make sure you're amazed by the fact they all are wearing them. But, as you're going through all the kings, it turns out not all of them have hats after all. The last one you come to does not have a hat. He is the king of Zen (ぜん) Buddhism. He has simple clothes and a shaved head, unlike all the other fancy kings standing around nearby. To add to this story and make it more memorable, you can imagine the other kings getting upset, saying things like "All kings must wear hats! You are no king!" The king of Zen Buddhism just ignores them and begins to meditate.
# | 後 | Behind, After, Back, Later | ご, こう ; うし, あと, のち | Loiter + Poop + Winter | If you loiter around to poop in winter you never know what could be happening behind you. After you're done you could turn back to see something really crazy that you missed because you took so long to poop in the cold. Imagine trying to loiter while you poop in the winter. You're just trying to take your time as you squat over the snow, but soon you hear things behind you. You finally look behind you and see Godzilla (ご) and a giant こういち having a violent battle back there! Godzilla and こういち were going at it behind you the entire time you were just lazily taking a poop in the snow?! Ahh, that's so embarrassing! And also dangerous, they could have crushed you! You should look behind you more.
# | 血 | Blood | けつ ; ち | Blood | The blood radical and blood are the same in looks as well as in meaning. There'll be some bad blood between us if you're not studying your radicals, especially when they're the same like this kanji! To remember the reading けつ, we use the word "ketsup." The perfect mix of ketchup and catsup! The radical is technically blood, but you know that radical is just a drop (of blood) on a plate. So, you ask yourself... Is that really blood on the plate? Could it be? You decide to take a gamble and lick it off. When you taste it, it's definitely not blood. No, it's ketsup (けつ). Feel the relief that you didn't just lick up someone's blood. Taste the ketsup taste, too. It's pretty good. Not quite ketchup, but not quite catsup. Yum!
# | 両 | Both | りょう | Ground + Head + Mountain | Under the ground, which you dug into, you found two great finds. You found both a mountain and a head, two strange things to find underground. You'll want to focus on the part where you find both, not so much the things themselves. Think about how you can't believe you did so well finding both things at once. Usually you only find one or the other when you're searching. But, you dig too deep and water flows into where you are. Your only hope is a row (りょう) boat floating off in the distance. Also think... "What's that row boat doing here?" But, it's your only hope, so you have to focus on it really hard.
# | 明 | Bright | めい, みょう ; あ, あか, あき | Sun + Moon | The sun AND the moon are out? With both their light-powers combined, it's incredibly bright outside. Look up at both of them, hanging out in the sky together. Make them super bright, so bright you have to shield your eyes. When do things start to get bright outside? I'd say when things start getting sunny, and that is the month of May (めい). If you live in the Southern Hemisphere, it's bright in May because of all the snow, or because that's when all the streetlights come on. Depending on where you live, you might want to come up with a different reason for all that brightness in May. Perhaps it's because of Mother's Day, since we all know how brightly mothers shine. The important thing is to remember just how bright the month of May is, for whatever reason!
*** | 京 | Capital | きょう ; みやこ | Lid + Mouth + Small | There is a lid covering all the mouths that are too small to feed themselves, forming the capital. All of the small mouths come together and create a place where everyone can support each other. Picture the capital of your country. How many mouths have come together to support each other there? A thousand? A million? More?! To remember the reading きょう we use the Japanese city, Kyoto, which is spelled きょうと. It was once the capital of Japan! It was soooo full of mouths that came together that it was the capital for a long, long time. When you think of the capital, think of きょうと!
# | 化 | Change | か ; ば | Leader + Spoon | A leader with a spoon is a powerful thing. Even something like a spoon when given to the right man or woman can make great change in the world. Imagine your leader-hero holding a spoon out, then doing something awesome with it to totally change everything for the better. It's amazing the change this person can do with such a blunt, small device! Then, this hero of yours takes their spoon and says some magic words into it, changing it into a car (か). Of course, doing something like this is utterly amazing. Feel amazed in your imagination, because if you don't, then it'll be hard to remember the reading for this kanji. If you are amazed, you'll know that spoons going to cars = the reading is か, so make sure you take the time to be amazed.
# | 国 | Country | こく ; くに | Mouth + King + Drop | The mouth of the king extends all the way around him (like in this kanji). Where his mouth reaches, that is his country, give or take a few drops. Imagine his talking taking physical form. As he talks, waves extend out from him, and stop right at the border of his country before getting to the next one. Turns out the king of this country loves drinking Coke (こく). Every morning that big mouth of his swallows a whole 2-liter bottle of Coke for breakfast. Would you drink that much soda for breakfast? Now this king says he wants to pass a law requiring everyone in the country to drink nothing but Coke! That's crazy!
# | 亡 | Death, Deceased | ぼう ; な | Death | The radical death and the kanji death are the same. This thing is deceased. It ain't alive anymore. Your death will be because of a bowling (ぼう) accident. Oh, you didn't know? You're going to be hit by a giant bowling ball and crushed flat. You didn't want to know what would cause your death, you say? Well that's a shame. I guess you could try to avoid bowling from now on, but that won't do any good. Mark my words, your death will be bowling-related.
# | 死 | Death | し ; し | Yakuza + Spoon | If the yakuza hands you a spoon, death is coming for you. It's the death spoon, a sign that the yakuza is coming to cause your death. This spoon isn't for pudding, it's for death! Death comes in the form of a sheep (し). The death sheep works for the yakuza, and kills anyone who has their spoon. Picture the death sheep. He looks like a black shadow, and he has a scar on his face. He's holding a bunch of spoons, from all the other people the yakuza marked for death!
# | 地 | Earth, Ground, Land | ち, じ | Dirt + Alligator | A dirt alligator lives in the earth, not the water. They can swim through the earth itself! Which is pretty scary. You can think of this word as ground too, because that's kind of what earth is made of. Imagine seeing the earth moving as a dirt alligator rises out from the ground. You should run. The only way to keep this dirt alligator from dragging you under the earth and eating you is to feed it cheese (ち). That way it won't lead you to a horrific death under the earth by dragging you under and spinning you around until you eat dirt (literally). If you ever see someone throwing cheese on the ground, now you know why. They aren't crazy, they're saving us humans from what's lurking under the earth.
*** | 東 | East | とう ; ひがし | Tree + Sun | Behind that tree the sun is rising in the east. The sun always rises in the east, so if you head that way, past the tree, you'll be going east too. Picture the sun behind the tree, don't picture the sun alone, you'll burn your eyes. It's slowly coming up behind it. Now think: where does the sun rise? In the east! You walk east for a few hours until you finally come to a city. It's とうきょう. Oh! とうきょう is in the east. I get it now! When you think about East Japan think about とうきょう. And if you're bad at geography, just look at a map for a while. Or, stand outside in the morning, watch the sun rise behind the trees, and point that way. That's east, it's where とうきょう is!
# | 食 | Eat, Meal | しょく ; た, く | Eat | The radical for eat and the kanji for eat are the same! Lucky you. If you know the radical, you basically know the meaning(s) of this kanji. There is a second meaning added to it, though, and that is meal. Just think about the things you eat? What are they? In the simplest form, they are just meals. So, if you know "eat" you should be able to remember "meal" as well. Thank goodness, you finally get to eat your meal. You're so hungry. Someone has been starving you and now they've finally given you food. Unfortunately, though, every time you take a bite, you get a shock (しょく) from somewhere. So, do you keep eating and keep getting shocked? Or do you not eat and continue to starve? What is worse? Obviously you're in one of the Saw movies, or something, too, so feel the fear. What will you choose? Life with shocks or death from hunger?
# | 直 | Fix, Direct | ちょく, じき ; なお | Lion + Cross + Eye | You accidentally stab your cross into the eye of a lion. This is a terrible thing you did and you need to fix it right now. I'll be direct with you, this is something you have to fix on your own. How will you fix this mistake though? Maybe if you build a time machine you can go back and stop yourself from throwing your cross around so carelessly. Whatever you do, focus on how important it is to fix the mistake, more than anything. As you try to fix the lion's eye, it starts to choke (ちょく) and make what can only be described as a jikijiki sound (じき). Through its choking jikijiki sounds, it coughs up a gear. Wait. Is this a machine lion? You're relieved! You don't know how to fix a choking, eye-stabbed lion, but you can absolutely fix a ROBOTIC one. Robots are fixable.
# | 前 | Front, Before | ぜん ; まえ | Horns + Ground + Moon + Knife | There are some horns on the ground and a moon knife in front of you. When you try to move, they always rotate around with you, staying right in front. You can't escape these objects, for some reason. This kanji means before too. Something that's in front of you is before you, after all. Perhaps it's some kind of magic, but you don't care. Why are these strange objects always in front of me? Why won't they stay put? This will get pretty freaky after a while. Try to run. Try to hide. Spin around. Do whatever you need to do. No matter what, these objects are always in front. You're going crazy with these things in front of you all the time. You finally seek the help of a Zen (ぜん) master, who tells you that meditation will save you from this curse. You try it out, and sure enough, the objects are gone! It worked! Go ahead and do some Zen Buddhist meditation. Maybe it'll help you to remember this kanji's reading better (and calm your mind so you're ready for the next kanji!).
# | 有 | Have | ゆう, う ; あ | Narwhal + Moon | A narwhal and a moon is all you have. Imagine one of each under your arms. You don't have anything else. This is it. All you have. Everything you have (except the narwhal and the moon) were taken from you by a roving gang of youths (ゆう). They came and took your things. Now they have all your stuff, and you only have the moon and a narwhal. You don't have much anymore, but at least you have these things still.
# | 家 | House, Home | いえ, や, うち ; か, け | House | The house radical makes up the house kanji! Pretty easy. This kanji is also used to mean home, so try to remember that too. I guess not all houses are homes, and not all homes are houses. But there's a pretty big overlap, right? And in most situations, this kanji's got you covered. What do you do in your house? You eat eggs (いえ), that's what. You eat eggs three times a day, every day. You really love eating eggs in your home! Imagine all the eggs you've got in your house. Whole fridgefuls! It's not a normal house, but that's okay. If you couldn't eat eggs, it wouldn't feel like home.
*** | 私 | I, Private | し ; わたし | Grain + Private | Your private grains are meant to stay private! You shouldn't be sharing them with the whole town, they're just for you. This kanji also means I. Why? Because what's more private than you? I mean, I! Basically, some things are only the business of you (I) and those things should be private. Look at your private grains. Who are those for? Why, they're for I! You're getting into the zone, thinking about yourself (I) and how much you love having things that are private and just yours, when you realize there is a sheep (し) in this grain bag. And it's eating all of your (I's) private grains. No! The moral of the story is: don't let a sheep sneak into your private stash of things just for you (I). I'm sure this is a metaphor for something important...
# | 知 | Know | ち ; し | Arrow + Mouth | Just before saying something important, you take an arrow to the mouth which seals your lips together, making it so you can't talk. Someone doesn't want you to share what you know with someone else. Imagine being so surprised by this arrow. Then, think of all the things you know that need to be said and told to everyone. Maybe you have information about nuke codes. Maybe you have information that will save the President. Whatever it is, make sure you know important things that need to be said (but also things that people want to prevent you from saying, even if it means shooting you in the mouth with an arrow). To remember the reading ち we use the word "cheese." One of the things you know is actually very strange but very important. The president's cheese (ち) has been poisoned and only you know. If you could just say something then maybe you could save her... but... you have an arrow in your mouth. Try saying the words "cheese" with an arrow in your mouth. What would that sound like? Go ahead and pretend out loud.
# | 活 | Lively | かつ ; い | Tsunami + Tongue | A tsunami of tongues is coming at you. As it washes over you, you feel each individual tongue moving around on your body, licking you. They make you feel so... lively! Your entire body wakes up, you feel so lively! The tongues are making you more aware of yourself and your surroundings than you've ever been. You want to dance, you want to sing, you want to live your life. This lively feeling isn't just happening to you, the tongue tsunami is licking it into all of the cats (かつ) in your neighborhood too! You and the cats are running around playing together, because you can't seem to get the lively feelings to stop. You have to get the energy out, but the cats have sharp claws and they're scratching you.
# | 長 | Long, Leader | ちょう ; なが; は | Long | The long radical and the long kanji are the same! This kanji also means leader, because the longer a person is, the better a leader they'll be. Or maybe it was... the longer they've been somewhere? Whatever, longness = leaderness, you know? As long as you know the radical long, you know the kanji long as well. You see a very long person. It's Mrs. Chou (ちょう), who has made herself long, like her street. "I made myself long so I can watch more of the street, my domain. I'm the leader of these streets. Watch yourself not-long person," says Mrs. Chou. Long isn't an idea that's easy to imagine in any specific sense, but you can try some other things too, as long as it gets associated with Mrs. Chou. For the most part, when you see a kanji with the radical 長 the reading will be ちょう.
# | 曲 | Music, Bend | きょく ; ま | Mouth + Twenty | Twenty mouths are together. That's a lot of mouths. What do they do? They sing beautiful music together. Listen to the twenty mouths. They sound great. Have them sing your favorite music. Also note that this kanji also means "bend." Imagine the music coming out at you bending all around in strange shapes through the air. The twenty mouths make so much music that they literally cloak you (きょく) with it. They cloak you with the music. Imagine how you feel as they cloak you with music. Feel the music all around you, enveloping you. Become the music itself.
# | 首 | Neck | くび ; しゅ | Neck | The radical neck and the kanji neck are exactly the same!  The only thing you do with your neck is use it to swallow lots of cool beans (くび). Mm mm. Feel those cool, cool beans sliding down your neck. You don't really taste them, but you know they're there. Look at yourself in a mirror as the cool beans make their way down your neck. You can see them, like little ants marching all the way down to your tummy.
# | 夜 | Night, Evening | や ; よ, よる | Lid + Leader + Winter + Drop | A leader is wearing a lid and is standing outside in winter. Plus it's raining and she's covered in drops of water. On top of all this, it's night. If it helps, you can come up with a reason why she's outside in the winter at night. Also, why is she wearing a lid on her head? Probably because she's protecting her people from something that comes at night. Question is, what is she protecting them from during the night? Turns out, it's the Yankees (や) baseball team. They're out for blood, and only the leader can protect us. Imagine the Yankees stomping towards the leader, baseball bats in hand, blood on their faces. They're here to eat, and nobody will stop them. Feel the fear of their approach. Will you survive another night with them on the prowl?
# | 姉 | Older Sister, Big Sister, Elder Sister | し ; お, あね, ねえ | Woman + City | The only woman in this city is your older sister. She's the only woman surrounded by a bunch of men, but she's following her dreams in the big city. You want to go to the city someday, but you're not old enough yet, like your older sister is. Your older sister may have moved to the city, but she kept her pet sheep (し) with her. Now the only woman in the city is your older sister, and the only sheep is her pet. Picture your older sister and her sheep walking through the city. Everyone turns to stare at them, because they're the only ones of their kind.
# | 点 | Point | てん ; つ | Fortune + Boil | Your fortune boils down to a single point in time. One point in time determines how the rest of your future will go. Imagine actually going somewhere to get your fortune told and watching a big boiling pot of goo. As it boils, it melts down to a single point at the very bottom. Where this point is determines your future. As you stare at the point, you watch in awe as it moves to the ten (てん) spot in a long series of numbers. Is the ten spot good? Are you going to live a long life or does this point mean you're only going to live ten more years?! Ahh!
# | 安 | Relax, Cheap | あん ; やす | Roof + Woman | With a roof over her head, a woman can relax. She doesn't have to worry about rain or snow or finding a place to sleep. The roof also happened to be super cheap, so she can even relax about her finances. Picture the super relaxed woman lounging under her cheap but sturdy roof. Ah, she doesn't have a care in the world! As she relaxes, she pulls out the cheapest, most relaxing food in the world: anchovies (あん). Think about it: anchovies cost next to nothing, they come in cans, you don't have to cook them or cut them up. You just munch them down. There's nothing more cheap and relaxing than eating anchovies under your own roof.
# | 室 | Room | しつ | Roof + Ground + Private + Dirt | On the dirt you've made a roof over the ground where you can be in private. This is your room! That's really all a room is, you know? A covered, private place where you can have some time to yourself. Imagine the room you live in now. Take away all the stuff and you're left with a roof and the dirt on the ground. It's your own little private place. The only problem with your room is that you can't always be alone. Because of your dad's shih tzu (しつ). The shih tzu likes to come into your room and pee everywhere. Ruining your privacy completely. Imagine watching the little shih tzu come into your room and lift its leg to all your things. This isn't fair. The shih tzu has its own room to pee in. Why does it have to ruin yours?
# | 科 | Science, Course, Department | か | Grain + Ladle | You scoop some grains into a ladle to do science. You're doing experiments on these grains in your science course. Imagine carefully ladling grains into different piles so you can do science experiments on them. This course is going to make you an expert. You'll be the best in this department! Using your science skills, the right temperatures and measurements, you manage to get these grains to grow into a car (か). This is the science department's special car now! From your science meddling, these grains grow huge, red, and sprout sports cars when they're ripe. This is the true power of science!
# | 海 | Sea, Ocean | かい ; うみ | Tsunami + Gun + Window | A tsunami is coming, so you point your gun out the window at it. "You better turn back, sea, or I'll shoot!" You'll have to think of the "sea" as its own entity, controlling the tsunami, otherwise you might confuse and combine the two. So when you point your gun out the window, aim it at the "sea," not the "tsunami." It's like aiming for the head of a zombie and not the arms or legs. The sea decides it doesn't want to die today, so it turns its tsunami around and goes the other way. You hop in your kayak (かい) and chase after it with your gun, to make sure it actually returns to the sea and doesn't just drown someone else. Imagine paddling in your kayak, your gun still in one hand, as you chase the sea back to its home.
# | 羊 | Sheep | よう ; ひつじ | Sheep | The sheep radical and the sheep kanji are the same in looks as well in meaning. You are no sheep—you study your radicals, unlike most Japanese learners. You'll learn sooo much faster! To remember よう, we use the word "Yogurt." The sheep are after you. There are too many of them, and they're chasing you down, stalking you... because you stole their sheep's milk yogurt (よう). Now you're running and crying and trying to eat the yogurt before the sheep catch up and stomp you down with their hooves. Imagine the taste of this yogurt. You're scared and tired from running, but it tastes great!
# | 店 | Shop, Store | てん ; みせ | Canopy + Fortune | A long time ago, someone put up a canopy over their fortune telling booth and created the first shop. This store was fortune-based, but since then lots of different stores have popped up! Picture the very first store in history. A fortune teller decided enough was enough, they should be in some kind of structure where it's safe, official looking, and more permanent. This shop quickly turned into ten (てん) shops! It was a good idea, after all, so all of the other people selling goods and services decided to copy it and create their own shops. The next day there were ten more. Picture ten shops, all made up of someone selling something under a canopy. The first one is the fortune teller, but the nine others are whatever you want them to be!
# | 南 | South | なん ; みなみ | Cross + Head + Horns + Dry | The cross you're holding above your head to keep your horns dry keeps pulling you south. Probably because it's warmer in the south of Japan, so it's easier to keep things dry. Look down and see the compass pointing south and feel the cross pulling you in that direction. You finally make it down south, and it is dry, but you're really hungry. When you try to find southern food you realize every single store is only selling naan (なん). Imagine being in the south and taking big bites of naan. It tastes good, but now your mouth is dry just like your horns. Too dry...
# | 星 | Star | せい ; ほし | Sun + Life | The sun that gives life is our very own star (which we happen to call the sun). Of course, all the other stars are probably giving life to other planets as well. Imagine all sorts of stars all around the universe giving life to planets as suns. These are all the stars you see in the sky and there are billions of them. I hope you don't feel overwhelmed by how minuscule we really are when you look up at all of them. This star (the sun) and all of the others are yours to protect with your trusty saber (せい). If you could protect your land from the West, then you can certainly defend the stars too! Now you're soaring through between the stars, swinging your saber through the silence of space, and... wait. No that was a dream. You roll over and pat your saber. The two of you are ready just in case the stars need your help.
# | 州 | State, Province, County | しゅう | Drop + River | Think about Japan. Japan is a country made up of islands. They're basically three drop drop drops in the large river that is the Pacific Ocean. These are Japan's states or provinces. Also, another way to think of this is that the river radical is actually just three rivers, separating drops, which are capitals of various states. Rivers are usually great ways to divide up a country, and states are one way to do it! Each state has its own shoe (しゅう) to represent it. The bottom of each shoe is the shape of the state, so when you step it leaves a state-shaped imprint in the ground. The state shoes also have things like the state birds, state flowers, and state fish printed on each of them. They're quite collectable, you should buy a pair for your favorite state!
# | 取 | Take | と ; しゅ | Ear + Stool | There's an ear just sitting on a stool. Nobody's watching, so, you take it. Feel the rush of stealing something (even though it's a weird something, admittedly). Start walking away quickly. You don't want to get caught! You're the kind of person who likes to take things. "What things?" you ask. Little toes (と). Because that isn't creepy. When someone asks you "Do you like to take little toes?" your answer is always "Toetally."
# | 茶 | Tea | ちゃ, さ | Flowers + Hat + Angel | You come across an angel wearing a hat that's covered in flowers. So, you do the only natural thing. You take this angel, chop him up into tiny pieces, and dry him out. Then, you make tea out of all the dried up angel bits. You wear the hat, though. How does this angel-flower tea taste? Be sure to imagine it. Probably heavenly *rimshot.* In your tea you find a little metal button. I guess you missed it while you turned the angel into tea. You look at the button - on the back it says "To Chad (ちゃ), you'll make an awesome angel." Looks like you're drinking Chad the Angel. It gets kind of weird when you know their names... Usually you just make them into tea without knowing who they are (easier that way). This one... this one is Chad, and you remember it vividly, because now you feel kind of bad.
# | 思 | Think, Thought | おも ; し | Rice Paddy + Heart | In a rice paddy you find a heart and it makes you think. You think a lot of thoughts like, "Whose heart is this? Why is it in a rice paddy? Why am I thinking out loud?" Think, think, think. Think about this rice paddy heart. As you are thinking these thoughts, you spot someone on the edge of the rice field. He really reminds you of someone. But who? That's it! He reminds you of that bartender on The Simpsons. What's his name? You think some more. What is it? Oh! Moe (おも) is his name! If you don't know Moe from the Simpsons use a different Moe, perhaps the one from the Three Stooges? You should be able to come up with one. Think really hard about the Moe you know best and imagine them standing watching you from the edge of the rice field.
# | 歩 | Walk | ほ ; ある, あゆ | Stop + Small + Slide | You stop at a small slide. What were you doing before you stopped here? You were walking. Question is, what made you stop? Imagine yourself walking at a nice casual pace... then imagine something that would make you stop that's incredibly interesting and strange. Maybe an alien is going down the slide? He would say "keep walking, friend." So, you're walking around, minding your own business, when suddenly something flips up and whacks you in the face. You stepped on the head of a hoe (ほ) and it caused it to swing up from the ground and hit you. Of course, imagine the pain of your face. Did your nose break? After bringing yourself together, look down at what hit you. It's a hoe! How did you manage to step on just the right spot to flip it up on you like that? Examine the hoe. Pay close attention to it. Whose hoe is this? etc.
# | 向 | Yonder, Facing | こう ; む; なた | Drop + Mustache | A drop hits your mustache. Where did it come from? "Ah, it came from yonder," you say, facing that way. Yonder is a bit of a weird word, but it fits the meaning of this kanji quite well. You'll have to trust me that it's more useful in Japanese than it is in English. When you imagine through this mnemonic, make sure the drop comes from the side and hits you in the mustache with quite a bit of force. That means it came from a far distance thus making you look over "yonder." Who shot this drop at you from yonder? You look over yonder, and see a figure. It is こういち. "Who is that over yonder!" you yell. "It is I, (こういち)," he yells back. "I shot at you over yonder because you weren't doing your kanji reviews often enough and you're taking up space on our database." "But I'm paying you!" "Oh, that's true. Well, I'm going to walk over yonder and leave you alone, then."
# | 妹 | Younger Sister, Little Sister | まい ; いもうと | Woman + Jet | Who's that woman pretending to be a jet? That's my younger sister. *Sigh* Imagine a little girl (your younger sister) running around with her arms out, pretending to be a jet, too. Prwoooooo! Your younger sister is giving some mice (まい) a ride on her back like a jet. Ew, gross. Your younger sister is such a weirdo! Why does she have mice on her back while pretending to be a jet?
# | 辺 | Area, Side | へん ; あた, べ | Scooter + Sword | While riding your scooter, you take your sword and cut out an area on the ground.  You carefully cut all the sides as you go. This area's all yours now! Imagine riding your scooter around in a really large area, pressing your sword into the ground as you do. Once you've finished carving out the sides of the entire area, you claim to everyone around that this is YOUR area, and they aren't allowed in. As you look down at your area with its sword-carved sides, you suddenly realize there is a hen (へん) pecking at the ground in there. "Um, excuse me, hen, I believe I said this is MY area?!" You try to kick it out, but it hops over your leg. Imagine doing everything you can to get this hen out of your area, but it manages to dodge and outwit you at every turn. You even slash at it with your sword and try to run it over with your scooter, but the hen can't be stopped. This is the hen's area now. You have been defeated.
# | 付 | Attach | つ ; ふ | Leader + Measurement | You have to take the measurement of a leader. Imagine yourself measuring that leader's height and then coming up short. This is not good, you think. Leaders need to be at least six feet tall. So, to make the leader tall enough, you attach another head to the top of the leader's head. Make sure you really feel like the person can’t be a leader because they’re too short when you measure them (I know this isn’t true, but we’re remembering kanji here, anything goes!). As long as you feel disconcerted that the leader isn’t tall enough, you should be able to remember that you need to attach something to the leader to make them tall enough. The fact that you’re attaching another head to the top of the leader's head is pretty weird too, and should help you to remember the meaning. You have to remember the kun'yomi reading of this kanji, and the part you need to remember is つ. So, think of attaching something to something else. What would you need? You'd need two (つ) things to put together! Just focus on how attaching requires two things to remember this reading.
# | 札 | Bill, Tag, Label, Note | さつ ; ふだ | Tree + Umbrella | This tree has an umbrella, which it’s holding over its head. Strange, because trees normally like water… turns out, this tree wasn’t getting showered in water, but in dollar bills instead. The sick part is that all those bills were once this tree’s friends. Picture the tree sobbing uncontrollably, as pieces of its former friends fall everywhere around it. No wonder it needs that umbrella. With all those bills still falling around it, the tree sat (さつ) down on the floor, all while still sobbing uncontrollably. The little tree was crying so much that it sat down on the floor, unable to keep standing. Poor thing.
# | 鳥 | Bird | ちょう ; とり | Bird | The bird radical and the bird kanji are the same! As long as you know the radical bird you know the kanji bird. Think of a run of the mill bird, whatever comes to mind for you first is fine. Then, your lovely bird swells. The shape of a face, then a hand, start stretching the bird apart until it explodes outward. Covered in blood and feathers is Mrs. Chou (ちょう). After bursting out of this bird, she turns her head sharply in your direction. "I don't just own the streets, I own the birds too. I'm inside every bird, and I, Mrs Chou, can burst out at any time."
# | 黒 | Black | こく ; くろ | Black | The radical black and the kanji black are exactly the same.  You're in a completely black room. There's no way out, and you can't see. The room starts to fill with liquid. It gets in your mouth. You taste it. It's Coke (こく)! Mm, tasty Coke. You need to drink all this Coke, otherwise you're going to drown. Drink this Coke and keep tasting its cold sweetness as you drink it all to survive.
# | 船 | Boat, Ship, Vessel | せん ; ふね | Boat + Fins + Mouth | Your boat has fins and a mouth! It's still a boat though. Picture this boat. It's still a boat, but there is a big mouth on the front and it has fins that it paddles forward with. This boat belongs to the centaurs (せん). That's probably why you've never seen a boat like it before. Picture this mouth and boat with a bunch of centaurs riding in it. Centaurs have a lot more parts than humans, so it makes sense that their boats have more parts (animal ones) too.
# | 必 | Certain | ひつ ; かなら | Heart + Slide | The slide coming out of the patient's heart is there because a mad scientist is testing to see if it's a good way to drain the body of blood. The patient is alive now... but they are definitely slated for certain death. As you imagine the mad scientist drawing blood out of the patient's heart with a small slide, also imagine a little meter hooked up to him as well. On one end is "SURVIVE!" on the other end is "CERTAIN DEATH." Right now the finger is pointing close to certain death, though :( As the beeping heart thing starts to do one long continuous beeeeeeeeeeeeeep, the doctor puts his hands together and hits (ひつ) the dead patient over and over, attempting to bring him back. Maybe imagine yourself running in there too, just trying to hit the patient back to life, because the patient was your friend.
# | 象 | Elephant, Phenomenon | ぞう, しょう | Elephant | The elephant radical and the elephant kanji are the same. But! This kanji has another meaning: phenomenon. If you were the first person to see an elephant, you'd call it that too. Picture the first Japanese person to see an elephant. He stops dead in his tracks, points and screams out, "What a phenomenon!" Elephants are great and all, except that when they die they turn into elephant zombies (ぞう). But you never see these zombies because the shougun (しょう) has a special project in place that destroys all elephant bodies when they die. Hint: The readings and meanings for this kanji match up really nicely. ぞう is always for elephant and しょう is always for phenomenon. Remember it like this, the elephant is the zombie and the shougun keeps everyone from finding out about this phenomenon. Picture the shougun standing over a pit of zombie elephants. None of these are getting out on his watch, letting people believe in such crazy phenomenons.
# | 末 | End | まつ ; すえ | Jet | This kanji uses a modified jet radical. The front area of the wing is wider than the middle area of the wing. This may seem counterintuitive, but by doing this they can fit so much more jet fuel. The jet zooms off and keeps going for a long, long time, until it reaches the end of the earth. Imagine the end of the earth being like how they imagined it pre-Columbus era. Just a big drop going off into space, giant waterfalls plummeting down. Your crazy jet has made it to the very end! Congratulations! When you get to the end of the world, you land your jet and put out a few mats (まつ) to sit on so you can view the sights. It's surprisingly dirty down here, because all the water takes the garbage this way. That's why you sit on these mats you brought.
# | 氏 | Family Name, Last Name, Surname | し ; うじ | Clan | Your clan is where you get your name. But not your given name, your family name. That's why people have names that mean "in a rice paddy" and "near the ferry crossing." The location of your clan determined your surname! Hope your ancestors didn't live on "Poo Lake" or something. Think about your own surname in your language. Where did it come from? Were you a clan of village dwellers? Maybe you made shoes! You should look it up and find out! Don't worry, I'll tell you where your family name came from. Your family used to herd sheep (し). You read that right, your family was of the sheep clan because you took care of sheep all day. Imagine your ancestors, herding sheep. Thanks to them your name means "sheep people." Thanks, great-great-great-great-great-grandpappy.
# | 失 | Fault | しつ ; うしな | Slide + Husband | That slide is your husband's only fault. He loves that slide, more than you, and it's the only thing you don't like about him. Imagine looking out the window of your house and watching your husband slide down his slide over and over. He's not even good at it, he falls off the side halfway down most of the time. You want to complain, but he's pretty decent otherwise. This is his only fault. You try to come up with another fault of his so you can complain, when you see a tiny shih tzu (しつ) trotting by. Oh no! Before you can call out, your husband has fallen off the slide and crushed the poor thing. You hear a sharp yelp and then nothing. You run outside and yell, "AHA! It's your fault that shih tzu died! You and that stupid slide!"
# | 魚 | Fish | ぎょ ; さかな, うお | Fish | The radical fish and the kanji fish are exactly the same! Nothing fishy about that, right? You catch a fish. As you pull it out of the water, it starts yelling and pointing: "GO!" (ぎょ). "GO GYO GYO GYO!" There's a huge cruise ship coming right towards your little fishing boat. No wonder the fish was yelling GO at you. Have him continue to scream "GO GYO GYO GYO!" as you try to get your engine started and attempt to flee your impending doom. The fish helps too, because he's pretty worried as well.
# | 床 | Floor, Bed | ゆか, とこ ; しょう | Canopy + Tree | Under the canopy, you use a tree for your floor. It also becomes your bed, because hey, what is a floor but the original bed? You lay it down, cut it into slats, and voila! A floor! And a bed! It's great having a floor or bed, but whenever you use it you say yucka (ゆか) because it just gets so dirty. That's the one flaw of using a floor as a bed. In fact, it's the dirtiest floor you've ever seen, because it's covered in yucca (ゆか) leaves. You're sleeping on a yucca floor. Ew! You can imagine how comfortable it is to sleep on a floor of yucca leaves, but at the same time how horrible the smell must be when they start to rot.
# | 以 | From, Since, Compared With, With, By Means Of | い | Lion + Drop + Person | The lion drops a drop of saliva onto this person from above. The person is in a much worse place compared with where they were before, since they only just recently fell into this pit. Picture the person, the lion is leaning over them, the drop of spit dangling from their mouth. "I-I want to go back where I came from," the person gasps, shaking. From above there is a loud caw, and a giant eagle (い) swoops down, forcing the lion to back off. The eagle grabs the person with its talons, bringing him into the air! But now he's... in the air being carried by a giant eagle, compared with where he was before, is this really better?! The eagle came from the sky and technically rescued him, but compared to where he was before, it may not be a better situation. I think this person is going to be eaten either way.
# | 組 | Group, Association, Team | くみ ; そ | Thread + Top Hat | Sew thread through your top hat and to the top hats of other people you know and you'll turn into a group of top hat wearing people. You're all connected by the thread now, so everyone will assume you're a group, even if that's all you guys have going for yourselves. Picture a group of people threaded together by their top hats. Don't you want to be part of a cool group like that? Your own top hat team. Everyone in this group loves cumin (くみ). You know, the spice or seed. The group take off their top hats and fill them with cumin. You're officially a group for lovers of cumin. What do you do in the cumin group? You smell the cumin. Cook with it it. Taste it. This group lives and breathes cumin!
# | 画 | Image, Drawing, Painting | が, かく | Street + Rice Paddy + Box | You go down a street that cuts through a rice paddy and leads to a box. When you open the box at the end of the street, you see it's full of images. Image after image. Drawing, painting, you name it. Someone must have left this box of images here. What are the images of, anyway? Well, it's better not to say out loud. Just think of the kind of image you enjoy looking at most. That's what's in the box at the end of the street. Aren't you the lucky one? Okay, I didn't want to tell you this, but the images are all drawings and paintings of gargoyles (が) and cocks (かく). Male chickens, that is. Turns out that's what you wanted to see most. Don't worry, no one is judging you. Try to see the images of the gargoyles. Winged, stony monsters. Very cool. And the roosters? Colorful little dinosaurs. What's not to like?
# | 欠 | Lack | けつ ; か | Lack | This kanji is the same as the radical it comes from. Lack becomes Lack! If you know the radical you know this. To remember けつ, we use the word "ketsup." It's the perfect blend of ketchup and catsup! You're lacking something in your fridge. You look around, trying to find the ketsup (けつ) you lack. You can't find it, because you lack it. Imagine having to use regular, ordinary ketchup, or just old, boring catsup on your burger. Or even worse, an actual tomato. BLEH!
# | 未 | Not Yet | み ; ま, いま, ひつじ | Jet | You're flying in a jet. Even though it's one of the fastest things on earth, your child is sitting in the back asking, "Are we there yet? Are we there yet?" You have to keep responding. "Not yet! Not yet! NOT YET!" Feel the irritation of this. How irritating is this kid going to be the whole flight over? The jet is going as fast as it can! What a selfish kid, right? Well, all he thinks about is "Me (み) me me me me me me me me me me." Hate kids like that. Go ahead and pretend to listen to the kid asking if we're there yet. Then in your mind go "me me me me me me me" quietly.
# | 紙 | Paper | かみ ; し | Thread + Clan | The thread that ties you to your clan is paper. Your papers, that is. The paper itself was also made by your clan using thread woven really tightly together. You need this specific paper to prove that you aren't a Commi (かみ), aka a Communist. Or that you are. It really depends on where you want to go and what decade this is. Imagine a big guard coming up to you and asking to see your papers so they can see what clan you belong to. Well you're from the Commi clan, so you really hope this guard is okay with that.
# | 通 | Pass Through | つう ; とお, かよ | Scooter + Mama + Task | There's a scooter with your mama carrying a task she needs to get done. You see her pass through, hurrying by to get that task done. Imagine your mama passing through your house on a scooter, not stopping because she needs to get her task done urgently. As you watch your mama pass through the house, she yells, "YOU HAVE TO DO THIS TASK TOO (つう)!" Too?! Oh no, now you have to do it too. Hurry up! Why do you have to do the task too? Because there are two tasks, so the two of you have to do them.
# | 民 | Peoples, People, Nation | みん ; たみ | Mouth + Clan | The mouth clan are a group of people. They are the people of a nation. The mouth clan are distinct peoples. They do, of course, use their mouths. The mouth clan peoples are a nation of people who use their mouths to say mean (みん) things to other peoples. That's why they're the mouth clan. This nation of people are known for mouthing off and saying mean things. Imagine them, as a nation, saying mean things to you. How awful! All being from the same place, they're all into it too. In a way, they're not the mouth clan, they're the mean clan.
# | 由 | Reason | ゆう, ゆ, ゆい ; よし, よ | Cross + Mouth | A giant cross with a mouth stands above you. "I am reason!" it says to you. It is the Cross of Reason. Because it's a cross with a mouth, it thinks that it is reason in all the chaos. The reason that this Cross of Reason exists is to combat the youths (ゆう) of the world, who just bring chaos into everything. "Those youths just do things for no reason! That's why I, the Cross of Reason, am here! I will knock some reason into those youths."
# | 理 | Reason | り ; ことわり | King + Village | The king's village is the reason he's king. Without the village there would be no reason to have a king in the first place. If a king has no one to rule then he has no reason to exist. You can't have reason without re (り). Just like you can't have a king without a village, you can't have reason without re.
# | 映 | Reflect, Reflection | えい ; うつ, は | Sun + Center | The sun in the center of the sky gives off its light, which reflects off of everything around it. Look around you, everything you see is reflecting the light of the sun. Unless it's night time, then the tiny sun in the center of your lightbulb is creating the light that reflects there. This reflected light is important for acorns (えい), in particular. Without light reflecting off everything, the sun's light would never make it down to the ground where they've fallen. They would never grow into trees. And we'd all suffocate. Picture the light of the sun reflecting off a single acorn on the forest floor. So much symbolism!
# | 校 | School | こう | Tree + Lid + Father | Next to the tree, a lid is put on your father. "Hello child," he says. "This is your new school." He goes on to explain that he changed your school to here because there is a tree to block the satellite's view. Also, he wears a tin foil lid on his head so they can't track him. The regular school was no good because "they were watching." So now you have this new school, taught under a tree by your father who's wearing a lid on his head. Your new school has other students too. They are all こういちs, though. On your first day of school, imagine walking under the tree and seeing all your classmates. They're all こういち–similar to each other, but with some variation. Your father explains these こういちs escaped from a government research facility, and they come to this school to receive a better education.  "These poor こういちs need a school that will teach them more than just kanji and Japanese vocabulary."
# | 雪 | Snow | ゆき ; せつ | Rain + Wolverine | The rain is hated so much by wolverines, so they always want to live in the snow. Imagine rain falling on a wolverine and how much they hate it, so the wolverine moves up north to somewhere with lots of snow. You ask the wolverine, "Why do you want this snow so bad?" He replies quickly: "Because the rain is yucky" (ゆき). He keeps saying "Yucky yucky yucky" over and over again. Imagine him doing this with an accent that would bring the word closer to ゆき.
# | 強 | Strong, Strength | きょう, ごう ; つよ | Bow + Private + Insect | You have a private bow made of insects that's extremely strong. Insect bodies are really durable, so they make for strong bows. You also have to be strong to use it, since it was made just for strong arms. Imagine holding this strong bow in your strong arms. Look closer at the little insect bodies that make it up. Thanks for your help, little guys. You had this strong bow made especially for you in きょうと. きょうと is famous for their strong bows, so if you ever want another, you know where to go. Imagine all the strong people who live in きょうと and make strong things. You should go there someday!
# | 夏 | Summer | なつ ; げ, か, が | Leaf + Eye + Winter | The eye leaf grows only in the winter. Every other leaf, however, will do the opposite, which is to grow in the summer. Just think of the eye leaf as weird (it is weird, after all). It grows in the winter. Now, think of any normal leaves. They do the exact opposite, which is to grow in the summer. Now it's summertime! What do you do during the summer? You just sit around with your favorite string tying knots (なつ) in it over and over again. Think about summer. Now think about yourself tying knots. Now think about summer again. Now think about tying knots again. Now think about your mother getting upset at you because all you do is tie knots all summer long. Go play video games like a normal kid!
*** | 高 | Tall, Expensive, High | こう ; たか | Lid + Mouth + Mustache | There's a lid on your mouth and mustache, covering up all your talking holes. This is because you kept saying how tall and expensive you are. Imagine yourself saying how tall and expensive you are to everyone in the room. Then they use a lid to cover your mouth so you can't talk to anyone anymore. But, then your mustache starts talking, saying the same thing. That's why this lid covers both your mustache and your mouth. Now you can't say that you are tall or expensive. "I am taller and more expensive than you." You're saying this because there are some こういちs in the room, and you want to make them feel inferior (you're a こういち hater). You keep comparing your height to the こういちs in the room, and you keep checking price tags. Then you tell them you're taller and more expensive than they are. The こういちs finally get tired of your shenanigans, and lid up your mouth and mustache so you can't say that you're tall or expensive.
# | 教 | Teach | きょう ; おし, おそ | Teacher + Winter | A teacher in winter is happiest because they get to teach! The kids can't go out and play because it's too cold. They all have to come in and stay warm as the teacher teaches! Picture a teacher excitedly teaching, bundled up in the cold. Snow falling outside. Grumpy children being taught inside. Teachers can teach the most about Japan in winter by going to きょうと. きょうと is where all the old temples and history of Japan is centered. And it's really gorgeous when it snows. Imagine the teaching teacher teaching you about Japan in きょうと in winter. You've always wanted to go to きょうと!
*** | 時 | Time, O'clock, Hour | じ ; とき | Sun + Temple | The sun is used in a temple to tell time. They don't have clocks or cell phones, they have sun dials and good old fashioned "looking up and seeing where the sun is right now." This also can mean o' clock, as in "five o'clock" It's used when measuring what time it is in Japanese. Imagine being in a temple and realizing you don't know what time it is. Never fear! Look on up at the sun. Ah, yes. Blinding noon. Time in a temple makes you think of Jesus (じ). Specifically, Jesus being able to perform time travel magic. He winks at you, goes back to the dinosaur ages, where he wrestles a T-rex. Then, he goes to WWII era and punches Hitler in the mouth. Imagine him going to all kinds of different times and also make sure you're specifically imagining Jesus doing all these things. Put these two together and you'll remember the reading in no time. (Haha, get it?)
# | 弱 | Weak | じゃく ; よわ | Bow + Ice | You have two bows but they're both covered in ice. This has made them very weak. Just look at these weak, iced over bows. If you tried to draw back their strings they'd snap into a million pieces. You give up on your trip and bring the weak bows back to your car, but it's stuck in the ice and snow. You decide to use the bows as a jack (じゃく) to try to get your car unstuck. Unfortunately, they're just too weak and they break in half. Now you're stuck with two weak broken bows and no jack. Ice is lame.
# | 週 | Week | しゅう | Scooter + Circumference | Use a scooter to travel the circumference of the world and it will take you a full week. Seven whole days! A week in earth time is also known as a "full scoot" in scooter lingo. ;) If you want to scoot for a week, you'll need shoes (しゅう). Good shoes too, not sandals or high heels or boots. Solid, high quality shoes, so you don't fall off the scooter and hurt yourself. You can't ride a scooter for a week barefoot, are you nuts?! Get some shoes!
# | 風 | Wind, Style | ふう, ふ ; かぜ | Table + Slide + Insect | There is an insect sliding around under your table, being blown by the wind. You try to grab the insect but it keeps sliding past your hand because the wind is so strong. It’s going to start blowing you around under the table too! Picture an insect, on its back, being blown around under a table. Feel the wind pushing you as you try to save the poor thing. This kanji also means style too. You can think of the wind blowing one style in fashion one moment and then another the next. It blows your clothes off and blows new style clothes onto you, over and over again. Imagine this happening. Are you embarrassed when all the clothes are off? Pleased when you get new style clothes on? The only way you can distract yourself from the wind and the insect sliding around under your table is by eating lots of food (ふう). That’s why you were at the table in the first place. It’s your dining room table and it’s dinner time! Try to stuff food in your mouth in the wind. Food tastes even better when you have to fight for it!
# | 記 | Write Down, Record | き ; しる | Say + Oneself | What you say to oneself (yourself), you decide to write down. Whether this is in the form of a journal, diary, or blog, you feel the need to record these important thoughts in some way. Just imagine writing in a diary and saying everything to write aloud to yourself in your head. "Dear me, today I learned a lot of new kanji on WaniKani. It was the best. I love the crabigator sooooo much. Love, me." You need to protect what you write down and record for yourself with a key (き). These are your special thoughts and feelings, you don't want anyone else to see! Lock them away with a key! Picture the key you use to keep what you write down a secret. What does it look like? How does it feel in your hands?
# | 黄 | Yellow | き ; おう | Yellow | The radical yellow and the kanji yellow are exactly the same!  You're in a room, surrounded completely by yellow. You can't get out. Somewhere in the room is a yellow key (き) but you can't find it, because everything looks the same. You crawl around trying to find this tiny thing so that you can escape. The walls are coming in closer, too. Make sure you feel a bit of peril as you look for this key. The walls have a slight opening at the bottom too, so if you don't find it before the wall goes over it, the key will be lost forever, and you'll be smushed!
# | 答 | Answer, Response, Reply | こた ; とう | Bamboo + Suit | "Does the bamboo shirt suit me?" you ask... but nobody will answer. Shout "PLEASE ANSWER ME!" a few times to get the idea of "answer" in your head. What you really want is an answer, whether it's bad or good, but nobody's willing to say anything because you look so terrible. You pull out a quarter (こた) and offer it to whoever will give you an answer. With this shiny quarter in your hand, everyone is giving you their answer. Yay for bribery!
# | 反 | Anti | はん ; そ | Cliff + Stool | The stool is in the cliff. If someone has a stool deep inside a cliff, they are most likely pretty anti society, hiding away like that. Imagine someone who looks super antisocial (and a little feral). Ask them why they're sitting on this stool inside a cliff... they reply because they hate people. They are anti people! Turns out, when you go to this guy and pull off his beard, he's Han (はん) Solo, the anti-hero from Star Wars! What is Han doing here, so hidden away? He's obviously hiding from Jabba because he doesn't want to get frozen in carbonite again. Make sure you get to the point where you pull this anti-social guy's beard off, to reveal Han Solo beneath. Be surprised... not just because he's Han Solo, but because he's real, too! Maybe you can yell out "Han! Your people need you!"
# | 君 | Buddy, Ruler | くん ; きみ | Wolverine + Slide + Mouth | A wolverine is going down a slide into your mouth. Why is he going into your mouth, though? You're opening it really wide, because you're screaming "BUDDY"!!! You're so excited to see your wolverine buddy-pal again. But this wolverine isn’t just your buddy, he’s also the local ruler of these lands. You make it a habit to befriend the local strongmen, so no wonder even the rulers are your buddies. You’re so happy to be seeing your wolverine ruler-buddy again, so make sure to really visualize yourself shouting "BUDDY!” as he comes sliding into your mouth. As you're about to embrace your buddy wolverine, a raccoon (くん) tackles the wolverine off the slide, preventing your mouth embrace. "RaCCOON!" you yell. "THIS IS NONE OF YOUR BUSINESS. Get out of here." Feel some hate for the raccoon. He ruined everything.
# | 局 | Bureau, Department | きょく | Flag + Cape + Mouth | Your nation's flag sits on top of a caped mouth. This is the symbol for the "Bureau of Secret Things." It's a special department of your government made to keep things hidden. The cape covering the mouth represents how this bureau never talks about their secrets. The flag represents your country. Think about all the cool secret things the Bureau of Secret Things must have. The bureau's best-kept secret is cloaking devices that cloak you (きょく) with the press of a button. Now, this mnemonic isn’t perfectly close, but the goal is to get you close enough in your brain so that you can remember きょく later. If you can get to CLOAK YOU, then you can get to きょく much easier than just trying to get there from scratch. So imagine working in this bureau and getting to cloak yourself all the time.
*** | 買 | Buy | か ; ばい | Net + Shellfish | There are some shellfish in a net that you can buy. You can't just buy loose shellfish. You can only buy the ones that are in the net, bagged up and ready for your money. Imagine looking over a bunch of different kinds of shellfish wrapped in nets. Think about which ones you want to buy. You decide to buy as many shellfish as you can fit in your car (か). You keep buying until your car is completely full of shellfish before you stop. Cars are totally a realistic unit of measure. Imagine buying an entire car's worth of shellfish. Mmm delicious.
# | 雲 | Cloud | くも ; うん | Rain + Cloud | A rain cloud is still a cloud! It's probably going to rain on you soon though, so I hope you have a jacket or an umbrella. Picture all of the different types of clouds in the sky. There are puffy white ones, heavy dark ones, and wispy thin ones. But they're all clouds. You lie down and try to figure out what the clouds are shaped like. The first cloud is shaped... like a cool mom (くも). She's wearing high pants, and holding a kid on each hip, but she's also listening to the latest music and using slang. Huh. You look to the next cloud and see... wait, another cool mom? You look at each cloud and each one is a different cool mom. They're each doing different cool mom things. You suddenly don't want to look at the clouds anymore.
# | 楽 | Comfort, Ease, Pleasure | らく, がく ; たの | White + Ice + Tree | The white ice tree is a magical tree. When you eat its ice flowers it gives you incredible amounts of comfort, ease, and pleasure. Imagine yourself picking the white ice flowers off the tree. Then, put it in your mouth. Make it taste comforting... It puts you at ease. Then, swallow it. Feel your head go nuts with comfort. This is the greatest drug in the world when it comes to comfort. So much pleasure! You want more of this. You gather as much as you can, and create an entire rack (らく) at your store with this tree. You sell out immediately, and have to refill your rack. Imagine setting up the rack. Make it look beautiful. Shift around the flowers. Fill up the entire rack. Of course, your focus should be on the rack portion.
# | 数 | Count, Number, Amount | すう ; かぞ, かず | Rice + Woman + Winter | In the winter, the woman has to go through all the rice and count each individual grain. Once she's counted all of them, she'll have an amount / number so that she can split them up accordingly. She has to count each grain out in order to divvy up the supply to last through the winter. Imagine yourself getting just a few grains today for food. It's not a good time for you guys :( Why are you so low on rice? It's because someone sued (すう) your farm and took everything you owned. So, you had barely enough rice (or not enough). Come up with a story about why your farm got sued for everything. Go to the court  case. Listen to the judge come up with your verdict. Be angry. This has ruined everything.
# | 決 | Decide, Decision | けつ ; き | Tsunami + Person + Hook | You have at your disposal a tsunami and a hook to assassinate this person. Which weapon will you choose. Decide now! Have trouble with the decision. Which one? Tsunami will be big and cool, but a hook will be more discreet. How can you decide? Can you think of a neat way to decide this, like Two-Face on Batman? To remember the reading けつ we always use the word "ketsup." It's a special mix of ketchup and catsup (yum!) You finally decide. You're going to go with the tsunami... but not just any tsunami. You'll kill him with a tsunami of ketsup (けつ). Get everything ready to take your target down. How will you plan this? Where will you put it? Go ahead and watch your plan unfurl, too.
# | 住 | Dwell, Reside, Dwelling | じゅう ; す | Leader + Master | The leader of the masters gets to choose the place they dwell. So they reside in a huge mansion on the top of the mountain, surrounded by all the other masters in their smaller dwellings. Picture the leader master who dwells in a big, beautiful dwelling. Everyone else is jealous. She needs this big place to dwell so she has somewhere to store all of her jewels (じゅう). Masters always have lots of fancy, expensive things, and she has jewels. Imagine opening the door to the leader master's dwelling and thousands of jewels come pouring out, whisking you off, down the mountain.
# | 電 | Electricity | でん | Rain + Rice Paddy + Umbrella | You're standing in the middle of a rice paddy in the rain with an umbrella. You're standing here because there's nothing else that's very tall around you. You want to get hit by electricity (aka lightning) to show that it exists. Get hit by the electricity. How does it feel? After the electricity hits you, you feel your face. In it is a huge dent (でん). Feel the indent in your face. It doesn't hurt, strangely, but it is pretty huge. Panic about this dent a bit.
# | 森 | Forest, Woods | もり ; しん | Tree | This kanji is just the tree radical three times. Just based off this, you should be able to figure it out. This kanji means "forest." Makes sense, because a bunch of individual trees is what makes up a forest! One tree? No. Two trees? Not enough. I want more (もり) trees, please! Keep repeating this pattern over and over, continually focusing in on how you need "more" trees to make this forest. For some reason the person working with you only goes up by one at a time, though, so you have to say it a lot (it'll help you to remember, anyways!).
# | 助 | Help | じょ ; たす, すけ | Top Hat + Power | With top hat power, you're able to help anyone. Imagine putting on your top hat and getting power from it. Then, you use that power to help someone. It's important to make the association that it's the top hat giving you the power to help that person. You're basically Frosty the Snow Man. The person you help with your top hat power? It's Jo-Anne (じょ). You can imagine saving her however you like. Perhaps she was under a car, and you used your top hat powers to help her out of that situation by lifting it above your head. Note: Jo-Anne is the character we're using with じょ reading mnemonics. She is short compared to Joe (じょう), the giant farmhand, which is how you'll differentiate the two similar readings.
# | 馬 | Horse | ば, め ; うま, ま | Horse | The horse radical and the horse kanji are exactly the same! Huzzah!  You are looking at a horse. It's looking at you. You try making horse noises at it, to get a reaction. Instead of reacting with a normal horse noise, it just makes sheep noises: "Baaa," (ば) it says. "Baaaaa." Feel the shock of this. It sounds just like a sheep, it's strange.
*** | 間 | Interval, Interval of Time, Interval of Space | かん, けん ; あいだ, ま | Gate + Sun | There's a gate that the sun goes through at a regular interval. There is an interval of time in the sense that the sun goes through it at the same time every day. And there is an interval of space in the sense that it has to go through the space between the gate posts. "Interval" is a weird word to remember, but just think of the sun going around the earth and through the gate like clockwork. Every 24 hours it passes through the gate, and each interval is exactly the same. This method of keeping track of intervals of time was invented by the great Khans of Mongolia, specifically the most famous Khan of all: Genghis Khan (かん). Genghis Khan has had a huge impact on the world as we know it, especially the Eurasian continent of the past, so he's going to come up a lot from now on. Be prepared to get very familiar with him and his friends! Picture Genghis Khan ordering his most skilled inventors and builders to create this special sun gate so they can harness the power of intervals, and all people under his rule can benefit from the accurate telling of time.
# | 場 | Location, Place | じょう ; ば | Dirt + Easy | Dirt makes it easy to identify your location. If you know that, you can go from place to place. Imagine looking at the dirt. It's a distinct color and texture, and you're able to identify your location just from that alone. Knowing your location from dirt is quite a feat! Who taught you that? It was Joe (じょう), the big local farmhand. Despite being a bit weird, he can identify any place just from its dirt! Remember Joe? He's our local farmhand who only has nine toes (from the 上 mnemonic). Imagine that guy explaining to you how to know your location from dirt. He may be a bit clumsy, but the man really knows his dirt.
# | 医 | Medicine | い | Cage + Arrow | You're in a cage and you've been shot by an arrow. Obviously things are looking pretty bad. You need some medicine if you hope to live. More specifically, antibiotics. Your wound is festering pretty badly. When we need to remember the sound い we use the word "Eagle." You need your medicine really bad. Then, you look up. There's an eagle (い) flying overhead. He has a package. It's medicine! You're saved! Or, so you think. He just keeps circling and circling. Feel some hate for the eagle. Why isn't he dropping the medicine? You don't have long to live!
# | 朝 | Morning | あさ ; ちょう | Cross + Sun + Moon | There's a cross sticking out the top of the sun and another cross sticking out the bottom. The moon is off to the right. That's because it's the morning, which is when the sun and moon switch over. Those crosses are making sure the sun stays high in the sky for the rest of the day. Imagine a sun attached up in the sky with two crosses, which act as scaffolding, and the moon gradually fading off to the right as the morning wears on. Every morning you have Asahi (あさ) beer for breakfast. You watch the sun scaffolded by crosses, and the moon next to it, as you sip on your early-morning Asahi.
# | 次 | Next | じ, し ; つぎ, つ | Ice + Lack | You lack ice. So you go to the store and see if they have any. Nope, no ice. So, now you go to the next store. Is there ice here? Nope. Next! Feel a little frustrated you can't find ice. Have the words "next next next" echoing through your head as you go from store to store, irritated. To remember the reading じ, we used the word "Jesus" - Finally, when you're at the last store in existence, you decide it's time to pray to Jesus (じ), asking for a miracle. He comes down from the heavens with ice in his hands. Imagine him coming down. Imagine your surprise. He hands you the ice, and it's cold. You thank him, and he flies away.
# | 番 | Number In A Series, Turn, Ordinal Number | ばん ; つが, つがい | Sickle + Rice Paddy | You have to sickle the rice paddy today because it's your turn. This kanji also means number in a series, which is a lot like a turn. For example, you're number 3, so your turn will be number 3. Go through in your mind the system your farm / village uses for deciding who has to sickle on any given day. It rotates, and it's a turn-based system. So, do you all stand in a line? Is there a calendar? Come up with something interesting, focusing on your turn in the process you come up with. It will be helpful to remember both the "number in a series" and "turn" meanings for the vocab coming up in the future. This turn-based rice sickle system is a contest as well! But, you are disappointed to find out that you have been banned(ばん) from the game because of the performance enhancing steroids you've been taking. Try to feel disappointed by this. Strange thing to feel disappointed by, but you were a great sickler. You were going to win the great prize, too (come up with something huge!), but now you're banned for the season.
# | 絵 | Picture, Painting | え | Thread + Meet | When a bunch of threads are meeting on paper (after you've dipped them in paint, say) they can create a masterpiece of a picture (or painting). It's unbelievable the kind of picture you're able to paint with just the tips of threads. So much detail. So artistic. If it helps, imagine that you drew the Mona Lisa, better than the original, only using this thread tool. You tell someone you painted this masterpiece of a picture. Their response? "EH?!" (え) Tell a few more people about your picture. Have them all do the same surprised "Eh?!" reaction at your art skills.
# | 所 | Place | しょ ; ところ | Door + Axe | You're taking an axe to a door. You're absolutely crazy. "I HATE THIS PLACE!!" you keep yelling as you smash in the door. Why do you hate this place, in particular? Come up with a great reason why to help you to remember this very broad kanji meaning. You finally break through the door and jump in. Inside is a great circus show (しょ). There are elephants, tightrope walkers, bears on unicycles, and more! The greatest show on earth, but why is it here at this place? Come up with a weird reason as to why the circus is at this place you hate so much. Why did you come here with your axe? Does it have something to do with the circus show?
# | 池 | Pond | ち ; いけ | Alligator + Tsunami | The poor alligator was taken far inland by a tsunami. Now his only source of water is a tiny pond that barely fits his body, and doesn't even provide much food. Imagine the alligator riding the tsunami in. When he hits the ground, and the water recedes, he's all alone in a pond, but it doesn't provide much for him. Imagine him looking for food in the little, shallow pond. Imagine him trying to stay wet... it's just not a great situation to be in, unfortunately. The worst part about this pond is that the only thing for the alligator to eat is cheese (ち). Cheese may be yummy for humans, but alligators hate it. They'd rather eat the cow the cheese came from. Sadly, this pond is full of cheese. Picture an alligator crying in a pond full of cheese. It's eating a piece really slowly and weeping.
# | 究 | Research | きゅう ; きわ | Hole + Nine | You dig nine holes for your research. You should always do research with nine variables so you can compare them and so there's an uneven number. Imagine carefully digging nine holes so you can do your research. Hmm, I wonder what kind of research these holes are for... You are researching cucumbers (きゅう)! Put nine full grown cucumbers into their holes so you can research what happens next.
# | 道 | Road, Street, Path, Way | どう ; みち | Scooter + Neck | Aim the scooter's neck at the road! Scooters are only meant for driving on streets and paths, and if you go the wrong way, you'll probably break your own neck! Imagine riding your scooter down the road. You're carefully aiming the scooter's neck the right way so you don't end up going out of control and dying. To remember the reading どう we use the word "doughnut." You're traveling down this road so fast that you don't see the giant doughnut (どう) that's rolling toward you until the last minute. You crash into it, and both you and the doughnut go tumbling down. Ahg, your neck! Alternate ending: You do a sweet jump, go right through the doughnut hole, take a bite, and land safely back onto the road!
# | 役 | Service, Duty | やく, えき | Loiter + Weapon | You loiter around with a weapon because you're currently doing your service and duty to your country. You're standing guard outside, waiting just in case something will happen. Imagine standing around with a weapon in your hands. It feels more like you're doing nothing, loitering around the wall, but this is how you offer your service to your country, so you have to do it. You're about halfway through your service, when a yak (やく) walks by. It stops directly in front of you and grunts. "Excuse me, Mr. Yak, but it's my duty to escort you away from my country." Somehow your duty has become pushing this stubborn, hairy yak away from the entrance to your country. You poke it in the butt with your weapon, but it doesn't seem to care.
# | 研 | Sharpen | けん ; と | Stone + Lantern | A stone lantern is an excellent way to sharpen anything, even in the dark. Your knives, your forks, your spoons, and even your sword. Imagine walking around at night and you need to sharpen your sword. You walk up to a stone lantern and rub your sword all over it to sharpen it. Touch the blade. Indeed, it's been sharpened! Why did you sharpen your blade? Because you are about to do battle with Ken (けん), the famous samurai warrior. You'll want to remember this character, because he will come up many times throughout your WaniKani journey. Ken the samurai used to work for WaniKani, but then he went rogue because he thought WaniKani wasn't being radical enough. So now he wanders the website carrying his squid friend (who you'll meet later) in a bucket. To help you visualize him, imagine a samurai with armor made from crab shells, a helmet that is just an alligator head, and swords with crab claw hand guards. His great beard and mustache are styled in the shape of whatever kanji is giving you the most trouble at the time.
# | 身 | Somebody, Someone, Body | しん ; み | Self + Slide | The self radical is a bit modified, with things sticking out, but that’s because it’s falling down a slide. Sure, it’s yourself who’s tumbling down the slide… at least that’s how it feels to you. Who are you? What are you? All you know is you’re somebody, but you don’t know who that somebody is. Apparently, you’re having some kind of internal crisis. Come up with a rough one and you’ll remember this kanji better. You’re falling down this metaphorical slide… And then you hit somebody… and you hit them really hard. On your metaphorical shin (しん). You split it in half and it’s at a right angle. The pain is incredible (shins have a lot of nerves!). It may have been broken, and you may not be able to walk correctly again… metaphorically speaking, that is. Just make the shin hit as painful as possible in your imagination and you’ll surely remember this kanji’s on’yomi.
# | 者 | Someone, Somebody | しゃ ; もの | Coffin + Sun | A coffin has been left out in the sun for too long. When dead bodies are out in the sun like this, they really begin to decompose. You are wondering who this person is, though. You can't tell because it's fallen apart too much. You look on the coffin. There's a label, but it only says "someone." Smell the stench of the decomposing body. Also, feel really curious as to who this person is. It came from somewhere that gives you a reason to believe it's someone you know. Then, feel the disappointment as you read the label that says "someone" instead of an actual name. "Someone," you repeat. "Someone." To remember the sound しゃ we use "shaman." It's time you open the coffin and check. Maybe there's more answers in there. There's no way this person could just be "someone." You lift the lid, and sure enough, you're able to figure out who it is. It's a shaman (しゃ), dressed in full shaman garb. How strange that a shaman was delivered to you this way! Come up with a story explaining why this shaman's body is here at your door, rotting in the sun. Make it ridiculous and interesting so you remember it.
# | 支 | Support, Branch | し ; ささ | Branch | The branch radical and the branch kanji are the same! This kanji also means support. To remember it, think about a tree with lots of branches. The branches support each other and the trunk of the tree. If you were to climb the tree, the branches would be able to support your weight too! Picture a branch supporting the weight of you, your entire family, and maybe a few friends. You're happily sitting on this branch, letting it support all this weight, when a sheep (し) starts to climb the tree. A very, very big sheep. Uh oh... no no, sheep. If you get on this branch it won't be able to support all this weight!!! The big sheep walks up the side of the tree with its weird hooves and starts to put its weight on the branch. "No no no!" you and your whole family scream. The branch can't support the weight of the sheep. It snaps! You all tumble to the ground. The end.
# | 話 | Talk, Speak | わ ; はな, はなし | Say + Tongue | Say it with your tongue. If you do, you'll be able to talk. You'll be able to speak. Your problem is you weren't saying it with your tongue before. Once you start using your tongue, you're able to speak suddenly! If something uses their tongue, it will be able to talk and speak. To prove this, you teach a walrus (わ) to use its tongue, and lo and behold, it speaks to you! You decided to teach a walrus how to speak because it seemed like the hardest thing to teach, with its tusks and all that. It turned out to be really easy. Although, you may have picked the Justin Long walrus, by accident. Either way, this walrus can speak! And you definitely (probably) helped.
# | 投 | Throw | とう ; な | Fingers + Weapon | In your fingers is a weapon, so you throw it. Maybe you're angry and you threw the weapon at a person you don't like. Maybe you're a pacifist and you threw it away so no one else could use it. Either way, when you have a weapon in your fingers you have to throw it. Imagine a weapon in between your fingers. It doesn't matter what kind. Now feel the weight as you throw it. You throw your weapon away because you're about to enter とうきょう and there are no weapons allowed there. There is, however, a big pile of thrown away weapons by the border, which is where you're throwing yours right now. Imagine throwing the weapon in your fingers just before you walk into とうきょう. You can see the lights, smell the smells! Throw your weapons and your cares away!
# | 対 | Versus, Opposite | たい | Writing + Measurement | You want to take a measurement of what you're writing to make sure it's long enough to hand in to your professor, when you realize it's the opposite of what you should be doing. You don't measure writing, you check things like word count and page numbers. Now it's going to be you versus the teacher on who determines how long this thing you're writing should be. Okay. It's going to be you versus the teacher. Subject? Measuring physical length versus checking word count. You let your nerves get the better of you and right when it's about to be you versus your professor, you hand him a new tie (たい). Is this also the opposite of what you should be doing? Probably, since it's bribery. But no one can say no to a tie, right? Next to your nicely measured writing, tape a brand new tie with a sticky note that says, "I hope this isn't the opposite of what you want, because I really need this A."
# | 受 | Accept, Receive | じゅ ; う | Cleat + Forehead + Stool | You’re sitting on a stool and someone cleats you in the forehead as part of an acceptance ritual. It’s for the most prestigious Spanish soccer club in the world. You got knocked off the stool, and the cleats really hurt your forehead, but you’re just glad to have been accepted. This kanji also means receive, which is quite similar to accept. It shouldn't be too hard to remember. You’re dealing with a lot of mixed emotions right now. You feel the pain from being cleated in the forehead and knocked clean off your stool, but you’re also glad to have finally been accepted into the soccer club. Suppress your pain. Accept this honor. After you've been accepted, they give you a small juice (じゅ) box to help you recover from the trauma of getting kicked. And you receive it with grace. Did you ever play soccer as a kid? Do you remember accepting a small juice box into your little kid hands during halftime? Apparently pros drink the same ones.
# | 美 | Beauty, Beautiful | び, み ; うつく | Sheep + Big | A sheep that's big is a true beauty. Big is beautiful, and that's all the more true for sheep. Imagine a great big beautiful sheep. See the sheep's beauty. This sheep is so big and fluffy that you can't see its tail, which is why it looks bit different in this kanji. The big sheep's beauty has attracted a swarm of bees (び). The sheep is so beautiful that the bees have mistaken it for a flower. The bees are swarming around the sheep, marvelling at its beauty and trying to figure out how to get nectar from it.
# | 予 | Beforehand | よ ; あらかじ | Mama + Street | What does your mama tell you to do in the street? Look before you cross! You gotta do it beforehand, or it could be too late. Imagine yourself about to cross the street, and your mama saying in your ear: "always look beforehand"! As you look beforehand, you see a yo-yo (よ) lying in the street. As you cross the road, you pick up the yo-yo and put it in your pocket. You're really glad you looked beforehand, because you now have a yo-yo!
# | 服 | Clothes, Clothing | ふく | Moon + Stamp + Stool | Take the moon stamp on the stool in front of you and use it on all of your clothes. Now even if you sell or lose a piece of clothing, you'll be able to find it again by checking for your special moon stamp. Imagine placing each piece of clothing you own onto the stool and carefully stamping them with a symbol of the moon. This should stop people from stealing all of your clothes! A few days later you're with a friend when you recognize the clothes they're wearing. You grab it, rip it off, and scream, "F**k (ふく) you!" There is your moon stamp! These are your clothes!! Your friend turns red and tries to pull the clothes back, "F**k you!" they yell. "No, f**k you, these are my clothes and I have proof this time!"
# | 比 | Compare | ひ ; くら | Compare | The compare radical and the compare kanji are exactly the same! Huzzah!  Compare the heat (ひ) today with the heat yesterday. Is it hotter today? It's up to you to compare. Feel today's heat. Now compare it to yesterday. You might want to check your thermometer if you're not sure!
# | 度 | Degree, Occurrence | ど, たく ; たび | Yurt + Stool | A yurt's stool is always placed at certain degrees. The degrees change depending on specific occurrences. Since a yurt is round, the stool has to be angled at certain degrees. It's part of yurt culture. Imagine someone adjusting the stool with a measurement tool to adjust it to an exact degree. Also angled at exact degrees is the dog (ど). The dog changes its degrees at every occurrence of the stool changing. Picture the dog leaning at the exact degree the stool is at.
# | 発 | Departure | はつ | Tent + Lantern | Once you remove the lantern from the tent, we will be ready for departure. We can’t leave the lantern inside of the tent; that’s a fire hazard. We’d best take it with us before the departure. Don’t you agree? Feel the heat from the lantern. It’s not quite as comforting as being inside a tent, but it’s better than nothing. The lantern will light your way on your departure. Oh! Don’t forget your hats (はつ) either. Wouldn’t want to start a departure without hats or a lantern. That’d be a short journey. How cold and unprotected would your head be without a hat? Very. Taking hats along with departures is integral to their success. Imagine how unsafe you would feel with no hats. That’s no departure I want to set out on.
# | 定 | Determine | てい, じょう ; さだ | Roof + Correct | A roof is correct only if you determine that it is. Imagine looking at a roof, and someone asks you, "Is this roof correct?" "I determine it is." You determined it, but you still have to test this determination. You go to the top and roll a tater (てい) tot down the roof. Tater tots will only roll down a perfectly correct roof. "Because of my tater tot roof test, I have once again determined it is correct."
# | 表 | Express | ひょう ; あらわ, おもて | Life + Kick | Sometimes life gives you a kick, and you have to express yourself to deal with it! Think of the last time life gave you a kick, and how you expressed that pain to make it go away. You need to express yourself, so you call up a friend and say “Heyo!” (ひょう). Imagine yourself saying it more like ひょう, though, so your friend has to try to figure out what you're saying.
# | 客 | Guest, Customer | きゃく | Roof + Winter + Mouth | Under your roof in winter there are more mouths to feed because you let guests stay with you when it's cold. Some of them aren't family, so they have to pay to stay under your roof and get food. Those are customers. Picture all of the hungry guests and customers under your roof, eating your food and sleeping on your floor. One of your guests is a regular named Kyaku (きゃく) the customer. Kyaku is always staying over at one place or another, so everyone knows their name. Kyaku looks just like any other customer. Picture a stereotypical "customer" type person in your head.
# | 重 | Heavy | じゅう, ちょう ; おも, かさ, え | Heavy | The heavy radical and the heavy kanji are the same. Know your radicals, yo! In your hand is a very heavy jewel (じゅう). Real jewels are always heavier than they look. Imagine holding a real jewel in your right hand and a fake jewel in your left. The one in your right hand is suuuuupeerrr heavy!
# | 持 | Hold | じ ; も | Fingers + Temple | You need to get your fingers around a temple if you want to hold it. Is the temple too big? Hold smaller temples you can buy in the temple's souvenir shop. Imagine holding a tiny temple in your fingers. Hold it up to the light. Hold it on the train. Hold it while you sleep. As you hold the temple you hear a voice. You look down through your fingers and see a tiny Jesus (じ). He's smiling and gives you a thumbs up. Aww, thanks Jesus! Jesus likes when you hold things like temples. He probably likes when you hold other things too, like ice cream, puppies, and homeless peoples' hands.
# | 負 | Lose | ふ ; ま, お | Prison + Shellfish | When you're in prison, whoever ends up with the shellfish will lose. It's the game all prisoners play. It's like keep away from the shellfish. And if you end up with the shellfish BZZZZTT that's it, you're the loser. Imagine that it's your first day in prison. You're walking around the yard, minding your own business, when suddenly a shellfish smacks you right in the head and falls into your open hands. "HAHA YOU LOSE!" someone shouts. If you lose, you're a fool (ふ). All you had to do was not hold the prison shellfish. It really shouldn't have been that hard to not lose, ya fool. Now you have to try to make some other fool lose. Otherwise you'll be the loser fool forever.
# | 相 | Mutual, Minister | そう, しょう ; あい | Tree + Eye | You need to look a tree in the eye to gain a mutual respect for each other. Stand up straight, look the tree directly in its eye(s). If it looks right back, you know things are mutual. It's the same with humans, you know? If you want to have a mutual relationship you need to be able to look each other in the eyes. If you're too embarrassed, or you look down on them, then that isn't mutual respect! If your respect for the tree is mutual with the respect the tree feels for you, you'll be able to see the tree's soul (そう). Right now its soul looks pretty sad, like it's trying to say, "Why are your people cutting down all my friends? I thought we had a mutual understanding." This is basically a FernGully moment, you know? You can feel the tree's pain like it's your pain. It's that kind of mutual sharing of souls you need.
# | 要 | Need | よう ; い, かなめ | Helicopter + Woman | A woman who pilots a helicopter will have the insatiable need for something. She doesn't know what it is. But she needs it. And that's why she's flying around looking for it! Picture the woman in the helicopter needing something. She's looking around. Searching. But she doesn't know what it is! Finally she knows what she needs! It's yogurt (よう)! Delicious, creamy yogurt! What does she need? Yogurt!
*** | 新 | New | しん ; あたら, あら, にい | Stand + Tree + Axe | There's a standing tree that you're taking an axe to. You're going to cut down this tree to let a new tree grow. As you imagine yourself cutting down the standing tree, think about what new tree you'll plant in its place. You cut down the tree to make room for a new one, but it falls on your shin (しん). Only your shin got hit, so focus all your imaginary pain down there. Try to pull out the splinters. Ouch!
# | 事 | Occurrence, Matter, Thing | じ ; こと, つか | Cross + Mouth + Wolverine | You find a cross in the mouth of a wolverine. What a strange occurrence. Why would someone do such a thing? This is a matter you want nothing to do with, so you'd better move along. Imagine that poor wolverine standing in front of you looking confused, with a cross in its mouth. This occurrence doesn't impress Jesus (じ), who appears and gently removes the cross from the wolverine's mouth. Imagine Jesus gently taking the cross out of the wolverine's mouth. What a swell dude.
# | 部 | Part, Department, Club | ぶ ; へ | Clown + Building | The clown building is over in that part of town. We keep the clown part as separate as we can from the rest of the normal people. In fact, the entire clown education department and their clown clubs have to stay in their part, they can't come in ours. Of course, we feel terrible about forcing the clowns into their own part of town. It's not that they're lesser than us, it's just that we don't like them. You see, that part of town is full of booze (ぶ). Clowns need a lot of booze to keep their charade going, so we just let them have it. But they aren't allowed in our part anymore, because they all stink of nasty clown booze. Picture all of the clowns, trapped in their weird clown part of town, drinking booze and smashing each other over the heads with the bottles. You're glad you don't live in that part.
# | 和 | Peace, Japanese Style | わ, お ; なご, やわ; かず, より | Grain + Mouth | When everyone has grain in their mouth, you will have peace. That is the Japanese style of doing things. Imagine Japanese people with grain in their mouth. The whole country is at peace. Peace is the Japanese style. The walruses (わ) living off of Japan see this, and start to emulate. The walruses also achieve peace by putting grain in every walrus' mouth, following the Japanese style.
# | 県 | Prefecture | けん | Eye + Lion + Small | The eye of a small lion gazes upon the prefecture that will one day become his. He’s a small lion, but once he grows up, everything reflected in his eye will be his prefecture to rule over. Imagine the small lion casting his eye across his future prefecture. His small eye is twinkling, because he's proud that he'll one day be prefect, and this prefecture will be his. This small lion's prefecture is being protected by Ken (けん) the samurai because the lion is too small to protect all of this land himself. Ken the samurai is used to wandering far and wide, so one, eye-sized prefecture is nothing to him. Picture Ken protecting the prefecture, punching hyenas in the face, and yelling, "This may just be a prefecture, not a country, but I'll give it my all for my lion prefect-to-be!"
# | 保 | Preserve, Guarantee | ほ ; たも | Leader + Mouth + Tree | The mouth of a tree leader is all about trying to preserve the trees. In fact, she guarantees that she will preserve the trees if it's the last thing she does. Basically, a tree leader is someone who stands up for trees. Mostly she talks, but that can be a powerful skill to have. She chains herself to a tree to preserve them. But, unfortunately, the lumberjacks just take a giant back hoe (ほ) and tear this tree leader and the tree she's attached to in half. What a terrible scene. Focus on the fact that they're using a horrible, modified back hoe. It's more like a weapon than a back hoe, and they show no mercy at all.
# | 返 | Return | へん ; かえ | Scooter + Anti | Your scooter is anti scoot. It doesn't want to run. So you have to return it. Unfortunately, now you have to return to the store to return this scooter, but you have no scooter to get there with. Ugh. You return to the store and wait in line to return the scooter but the person working returns doesn't want you to return it. He stares you dead in the eyes, waves his hand, and turns you into a hen (へん)! The employee leans down toward you in hen form and says, "Ooh, I'm sorry. We don't take returns from hens. You'll have to just return home."
# | 乗 | Ride | の ; じょう | Grain + Mouth | You put a grain in your mouth and let it take a ride. This kanji has the same radicals as 和, but this time the grain is in your mouth, which is why there's little pieces of grain sticking out of the 口 part ;) Just imagine you're a car or a train and the grain is a person. It's going for a nice ride in your mouth! You decide the grain is probably lonely on this ride alone, so you add some nori (の) seaweed, so it has a friend. Now the nori is going for a ride too, woohoo!
# | 屋 | Roof, Shop, Store | や ; おく | Flag + Ground + Private + Dirt | Some of your private dirt is on the ground, so you stick a flag into it. Then on this private land you claimed, you build a roof. Under the roof you also build some shops and stores. That's the natural next progression of claiming some land. Building a roof upon it and building some shops and stores inside. You'll see why in a moment. The roof covering the dirt is there so that the Yankees (や) can play baseball year round. The stores and shops are there to sell hot dogs and Yankees memorabilia. You have yourself a whole Yankees stadium, and all it took was a roof and some shops / stores! If you build it, they will come.
# | 売 | Sell | ばい ; う | Samurai + Forehead + Legs | There’s a samurai with (just) his forehead and legs. Everything in between is missing. What happened to everything in between? He was low on money, so he had to sell it all, leaving him with only the top and the bottom. Imagine this terrifying samurai. You have legs… okay, that’s normal. But, then you have just a giant forehead on the top of everything else, walking around. It's pretty scary that someone would sell such important parts of their body. If you see a samurai trying to sell all their body parts here's what you should say, "Bye (ばい)!" and just get the heck out of there. Actually, if anyone tries to sell you a body part you should probably say bye over and over until you can get away from them. Imagine saying, "Bye," loudly into the forehead of a samurai trying to sell you the rest of their face. If you say it loud enough it will distract them while you run away.
# | 送 | Send | そう ; おく | Scooter + Horns + Heaven | On its scooter, a horned creature from heaven will take things you want to send there. Picture the horned thing on its scooter, a big messenger bag over its shoulder with the kanji for heaven on it. "You got somethin' you want me to send?" it mutters. You want to send your soul (そう) to heaven. I mean, you don't want it to go to some of those other places you've heard of, so why not send your soul? You put your soul into an envelope, stick a stamp on it, and hand it off to be sent to heaven. Bye bye! I hope this doesn't have any negative effects on your body!
# | 辛 | Spicy | から, つら ; しん | Spicy | The spicy radical and spicy kanji are exactly the same! Hot!  When you eat spicy food, it gives a からて chop to your mouth. That's where that spicy feeling comes from! Imagine a bunch of little black belt spice molecules からて punching, kicking and chopping all the way through your mouth and into your throat and nasal passages. Oww, it's pure agony!
# | 像 | Statue, Image | ぞう | Leader + Elephant | The leader of the elephants was so great, they made a statue of him. This image of him looks down on all the other elephants at all times. For now, just imagine the leader of the elephants being told they're getting a statue. Don't think about what the statue looks like, because that's next. When they unveil the statue of the leader elephant, everyone gasps. It's a statue of the leader, but they are a zombie (ぞう). Gasp! But this is exactly what the leader of the elephants asked for. For you see, the leader of the elephants was a big fan of zombies. Imagine the elephant leader being so excited to have a zombie version of the statue.
# | 苦 | Suffering | く ; くる, にが | Flowers + Old | Old flowers are suffering because they're old. Old things go through a lot of suffering because their bodies are breaking down. Flowers are no different from you and me. If an old flower (or person) is suffering, give them a cookie (く). No one can resist a good cookie. It will ease your suffering, or at least distract you for a little bit.
# | 泳 | Swim | およ ; えい | Tsunami + Eternity | If a tsunami is going to last an eternity you better learn how to swim now. We'll be under water for the rest of time and if you can't swim you're not gonna make it. Picture most of the earth's population already swimming on the tsunami that will last the rest of eternity. Your floaties and life preservers would help you through this mess. You need to swim! Oy (およ)! Oy, stop daydreaming about swimming and actually do it! Picture yourself swimming in the tsunami with everyone else. You can't really talk to them, you're too busy swimming for your life, so you just shout "Oy!" to them and they shout it back.
# | 談 | Talk | だん | Say + Fire | You  say things around a  fire. In fact there are two  fires, and you're talking with a group of people, all sitting around two nice campfires. Imagine yourself next to the two campfires, having a heart-to-heart talk. What are you saying? You talk in this intense, fiery way all the way until dawn (だん), but no longer! Once dawn comes the discussion needs to be concluded. If you try to talk all night and past dawn, you'll burn out. Take the day, think, then tonight you can try to have an all-night talk again.
# | 仮 | Temporary | か ; かり | Leader + Anti | Your leader is very anti-everything, making it all temporary. You get a new shirt, "I'm anti shirts!" she yells, and out it goes. She tires of things so quickly, you hardly have time to get used to them before they're gone. The leader's most temporary possession is her car (か). Or... cars, because they're all very temporary. She buys one, drives it around, and then suddenly she's anti red car. She needs a blue one! Picture all of the temporary cars she's tried filling up an entire junkyard. They're all a little different, but in the end they were all just temporary fads.
# | 験 | Test | けん ; ため, ためし | Horse + Squid | A horse and a squid are going to test you. Imagine the horse and squid in a big testing room, getting ready to test you. What are they testing you on? Weirdly, they're going to test you on all the kanji that use horse and squid radicals. You ready? The test is being supervised by Ken (けん) the samurai. To make sure you don't cheat on the horse and the squid test, Ken the samurai is watching you closely, pacing up and down. Every now and then, he waves his katana menacingly.
# | 物 | Thing | ぶつ, もつ ; もの | Cow + Wing | A winged cow is flying in the air. What a strange thing! You’ve heard of flying pigs before, but cows? This is a new and strange thing indeed! Cows with wings! What a silly thing to imagine. Imagine if cows could fly. Wouldn’t you be jealous of them? I mean, if a cow can fly, any old thing should be able to, right? You want a thing to help you fly with the cow so you put on your flying boots (ぶつ). Your flying boots are a pretty strange thing in themselves, but they're the only way you can keep up. Imagine a thing like flying boots. Do you believe such a thing could be real?
# | 具 | Tool | ぐ | Eye + Ground + Fins | An eye and fins litter the ground. What happened? You killed a fish. You must hide the murder tool before someone finds out it was you. You feel the panic upon realizing what you've just done. This is murder in the first degree. You used a terrible tool to do it, and now you must hide it. There's goo (ぐ) all over your hands. Goopy goo. It's the guts of the fish you just killed and it's dripping off of the tool as well. Yuck. That goo is really slimy. It's disgusting. You feel sick to your stomach. Please don't throw up, there's already enough junk on the ground with the eye and fins and all.
# | 実 | Truth, Reality | じつ ; み, みの | Roof + Spring | Climb onto the roof in spring to see the truth. The world is waking back up from winter and revealing the reality of what it is all around you. Imagine sitting comfortably on your roof as the world around you changes to spring. Snow melts and reveals all of the truths that have been obscured and hidden in winter. At the moment, you're trying to learn the truth about the deer that is coming out of the snowy woods when you see not one, but two baby deer appear with it! Gee! Two (じつ) babies! You keep looking around and realize that all of the animals seem to have two babies that they had hidden in the snow. Gee! Two babies! Reality sure is lovely.
# | 試 | Try, Attempt | し ; こころ, ため | Say + Ceremony + Construction | If you want to say something at a ceremony for construction workers you're going to have to try really hard. Construction is loud, so if you want to be heard you have to attempt to be louder than the drilling and smashing and digging and handing out of awards. Try to imagine trying this hard to be heard. The construction workers are all screaming at each other with ease. It's so hard for you to try and keep up with their volume! You try to get their attention the only way you know how, by lifting a sheep (し) above your head. The sheep baas and suddenly everything is silent, all eyes are on you. Well, they're on the sheep. Huh. You should have thought to try this sheep technique earlier.
# | 使 | Use | し ; つか | Leader + Ground + History | A good leader can put the ground's history to great use. You are a good leader. You have studied the ground and dirt of the earth your entire life. You know the history of the ground and you know how to use it to lead your people. Smell the ground. Waft the earthy smell of history into your leader-like nostrils. What does it smell like? It smells useful. And also like ground. You use the ground to raise sheep (し). When you were down there sniffing around you realized that your people will flourish best if you use this land for grazing and raising sheep. When you use the ground for sheep like this, your people rejoice. You're the best leader ever! You always use everything to your advantage!
# | 勝 | Win, Victory | しょう ; か | Moon + Gladiator + Power | The moon grants a gladiator its power so he will win! Victory will be his! Watch as the moon's power fills the gladiator. He starts to glow, grows larger, and has some craters on his face now. Well.. okay. He wins over and over again, and soon the Shougun (しょう) is even rooting for him. In fact, the Shougun claims him as his personal gladiator of choice. The Shougun is only interested in people who win. But you probably could have guessed that already.
# | 界 | World | かい | Rice Paddy + Jammed In | All the rice paddies are jammed into the world. The world is basically just a bunch of rice paddies smooshed together, if you think about it. To get around this world of rice paddies, you need to use a kayak (かい). A rice paddy is mostly made up of water, just like our world, and you don't want to have wet feet. Use the power of your kayak to become a world traveler.
# | 進 | Advance | しん ; すす | Scooter + Turkey | You give your scooter to a turkey so that it can advance. The turkey was trying and failing to walk through a crowded street, so out of the goodness of your heart you gave it a scooter so it could advance. Imagine picking up the turkey and putting it on your scooter. Of course, you give it your helmet as well, safety first. You wave as the turkey advances into the street at top speeds, collides with a car, and scrapes up its shins (しん) almost immediately. Ah! Silly turkey, you can't advance that fast, of course you'll hurt your shins. It's better to advance slowly, but I guess I couldn't expect you to know that.
# | 酒 | Alcohol | しゅ ; さけ, さか | Tsunami + Alcohol | A tsunami is an alcoholic beverage containing a lot of alcohol. It’s 3 different kinds of rums, pineapple juice, and grenadine. It’ll hit you like a tsunami though. This alcoholic drink has a kick to it. It’s made with spiced rum, coconut rum, and dark rum. Imagine yourself on a sandy beach drinking this cocktail. Feel the sun on your face and the wind in your hair as you sip on this fruity and rummy alcoholic beverage known as a tsunami. You could even picture an actual tsunami in the water coming right for you. I wouldn’t recommend it though—actual tsunami are scary, not drinkable and delicious. As you lie on this beach, the alcohol keeps coming down a chute (しゅ), straight into your mouth. You can feel the sand in your toes and the alcohol sliding down your throat from this special tsunami chute. Picture the alcohol flowing down this long chute from somewhere far away. You try to see where it's coming from, but all you can see is this long, long chute stretching along the entire beach, until it disappears into the distance. You should probably be concerned that you're nonstop drinking alcohol from a random chute, but it tastes so good!
# | 始 | Begin, Start | し ; はじ | Woman + Machine | If you give a woman a machine she'll begin learning how to use it right away. She'll also get it to start before anyone else could. Women are really good at starting up new machines! Picture a woman seeing a new machine and beginning work on it right away to see how she can start it up. Actually, before she can begin, she has to shear the sheep (し) over there. The machine is going to turn wool into yarn, but you can't just start that process by shoving the sheep in there. You have to keep the little sheep safe! Picture a machine starting up as the woman begins to shear the sheep. Picture the sheep staring at you, staring at it.
# | 業 | Business | ぎょう | Spikes + Sheep + Fins | If a sheep is having trouble trying to eat a fish with spikes on its fins, then the sheep probably has no business trying to eat it in the first place. Don’t sheep usually eat like, grass and stuff? What is this sheep doing trying to eat a fish with spikes on its fins? What silly business this is. Imagine this crazy sheep. Why is it trying to eat this fish? This sheep is blood crazed. Blood crazed for fish meat, especially the meat from fish with spikes on their fins. This crazed sheep means business. What’s this? The sheep is also trying to eat some gyoza (ぎょう) dumplings! Where will this sheep’s madness end? First spikey finned fish and now gyoza? This is some crazy business. Imagine you’re at an Asian style restaurant and you just ordered a big plate of gyoza dumplings. Next thing you know, this crazy sheep busts through the front door and starts devouring all your gyoza! Where did this sheep come from and why does he love gyoza so much!?
# | 算 | Calculate, Calculation | さん ; そろ | Bamboo + Eye + Twenty | If you get stabbed in the eye twenty times with bamboo, you’re going to have a hard time beginning to calculate where anything is. Taking a bamboo shoot to the eye is no pleasant experience, especially if done twenty times. You’d be blinded for sure. And a newly blinded person is going to have one heck of a time calculating where everything is without the power of sight. Imagine getting jabbed with a bamboo shoot. Now imagine getting jabbed in the eye with a bamboo shoot. It’s going to hurt. Try and calculate exactly how painful this would be and imagine it happening to you. Do you know how Santa-san (さん) punishes naughty boys and girls in Asia? He doesn’t give them coal, Santa-san tortures them with twenty bamboo jabs to the eye. Yikes. Do you know how Santa-san calculates who is naughty and who is nice? By their school grades, of course. Picture this evil Asian Santa-san, clad in blood red garments and brandishing pointed bamboo shoots in each hand. He’s a cold and calculating madman! You’d better start studying! Santa-san is watching!
# | 運 | Carry, Luck | うん ; はこ | Scooter + Forehead + Car | While riding your scooter, you bang your forehead on the car in front. Your scooter's wrecked, so you have to carry it home. You'll need a lot of luck to get that scooter home safely. Imagine trying to carry your scooter down a busy road, with all the cars whizzing past. Your forehead is still hurting from that nasty bang. Good luck! As you carry the scooter, your luck turns, and it starts to rain, so you pull out your umbrella (うん). Now you're holding your scooter, your forehead, and an umbrella. It's hard enough to carry a scooter in heavy traffic, but now you have to try to keep yourself and it dry with an umbrella too.
# | 漢 | Chinese, Man, China | かん ; おとこ | Tsunami + Chinese | A tsunami hit ancient China and formed the Chinese country we know now as... China! Sometimes this kanji also means man. In fact, it used to refer specifically to people of the Han dynasty, but over time evolved into a term for men in specific contexts. Picture the world way far away, from space. You see a giant tsunami carve out a massive chunk of land to the west of Japan on the main continent. Slowly the tsunami waters recede, leaving the outline of China. You peer closer at China and see one man, Genghis Khan (かん), leading his troops into the vast country, ready to conquer all the Chinese people living in China! Khan is only one man, but watch as he takes China for himself. A tiny little flag with a horse on it is raised in the middle, for all of the Chinese people to see. Hmm, this could be a problem.
# | 鳴 | Chirp | な ; めい | Mouth + Bird | When a bird opens its mouth, you’re most likely to hear a chirp. This is how birds communicate. They open their mouths and let out a series of chirps. Chirp chirp chirp! Imagine yourself out in the wilderness on a sunny spring day. The weather is perfect and the scenery is beautiful. The only sound you can hear is the chirp of birds throughout the woods around you. It’s very peaceful. The best way to experience the chirp chirping of birds is to offer them nachos(な). Birds love nachos so much, it's a guaranteed way to make them chirp with delight. Picture yourself surrounded by birds of all kinds, handing out nachos. Just listen to their happy chirping. They're sitting on your arms, shoulders, and even your head, trying to get closer to the nachos. That chirping is so loud!
# | 集 | Collect, Gather | しゅう ; あつ | Turkey + Tree | You chase a turkey up a tree to collect it. At least, you will once you've gathered enough turkeys into this one tree. Collect another turkey, send it flying and gobbling up into the tree next to the other one. Once you've collected enough turkeys, you're going to turn them into a shoe (しゅう). Maybe even two shoes, but that will mean gathering even more turkeys! Picture the nice, feathered shoes you'll be able to make once you've gathered all of these turkeys together. Ohoho, you can't wait! Go collect another turkey!
# | 配 | Distribute | はい ; くば | Alcohol + Oneself | You don't want to keep all the alcohol to yourself (oneself), so you distribute it to all of your friends. Heck, not just your friends, to everyone you can find! Don't be that person who keeps the alcohol all to themselves. Distribute it to all of the legally-aged people you know! As you distribute the alcohol you say a haiku (はい): Here you go my friends, Alcohol for everyone, Never drink alone This becomes the haiku you say before every party, every potluck, and every night out at the bar. You even get it tattoo'd to your arm.
*** | 飲 | Drink | の ; いん | Eat + Lack | You can eat all you want, but you'll still lack something to drink. You can't live just from eating, you have to drink things too! Imagine eating and eating and lacking a delicious, cold, thirst-quenching drink. Your mouth is dry. You have to drink something, anything! You get desperate for a drink and put some nori (の) seaweed in a blender, trying to create a drink of your own. Luckily, this nori isn't dried and pressed like they usually are, and you manage to make a bright green nori drink. You gulp it down, and even though it tastes like the ocean, it hits the spot!
# | 終 | End, Finish | しゅう ; おわ, お | Thread + Winter + Two | The thread of winter splits in two when the year comes to an end. One half symbolizes the year you were just in, and the other symbolizes the new year beginning, cutting winter in half and finishing off the year. Picture the threads that symbolize winter splitting in two to mark the end of the year. Winter isn't finished though, it's only half done. Right as winter ends you grab the two threads and lace them into your shoes (しゅう). Oh, you thought these were metaphorical? No they're real threads, although, they're technically shoe laces now. It's the end of the year, so it's time for new shoe laces!
# | 顔 | Face | かお ; がん | Stand + Cliff + Hair + Geoduck | Here you stand, a hair’s breadth away from the edge of a cliff, when out of nowhere a geoduck slaps you right in the face. Geoducks are gross, and you back away from the edge of the cliff you were standing but a hair’s breadth away from just before. Your face is all gooey from the geoduck’s slimy residue. Imagine being slapped in the face with a geoduck. It’s probably one of the worst things that could ever happen to someone. Those things are disgusting. Now you have geoduck goo all over your face. It’s sticky and slimy and gross. But where did that geoduck come from anyway? As you turn around from the cliff edge, wiping the goop from your face and out of your eyes, you see an angry cow (かお). This cow is the one who hit you in the face with this geoduck. I know not the reason, but this cow is most definitely not happy with you. Cows are big animals. So you probably got hit in the face with that geoduck pretty hard. Feel the geoduck shaped welt starting to form on the side of your face. It’s very painful and stings a lot.
# | 落 | Fall | らく ; お | Flowers + Tsunami + Kiss | A violent tsunami causes flowers to be ripped from the branches of trees and they swirl around and kiss your face gently as they fall. With the tsunami came a great windy storm that blew many flowers all about. It’s a pretty sight amongst all the destruction. Imagine being out in this tsunami induced storm. You can feel the rain and wind on your skin – you’re wet, cold, and scared. But you see some flowers being blown to the ground and you are mesmerized by the dance they do on the wind before they finally fall to the ground. You want to save these flowers you see falling in around you, so you take out a drying rack (らく) and place them carefully on it. Now whenever you feel scared, you can look at the flowers on this rack and you won't be scared anymore. Imagine running around catching the flowers as they fall. Imagine placing each little petal onto the rack to keep it safe and dry.
# | 農 | Farming, Agriculture | のう | Music + Landslide | You blast your music loud so it causes a landslide, revealing the perfect soil for farming! Musically moved dirt is perfect for agriculture. Imagine slowly turning up your big boombox until your ears hurt and the ground beneath your feet is vibrating with the beat. Soon you and the boombox are sliding with all of the earth down the hill and onto your farmland. Hooray, now the farming can begin! The first person to come up with this farming method was Nostradamus (のう), the famous seer and prophecy man. He predicted humans of the future would use special "yell cubes" to "move that good earth." Picture Nostradamus flailing his arms and trying to explain his vision to the farmers at the time. He knows that if they listen their farming techniques will improve, but they're looking at him like he's nuts.
# | 速 | Fast | そく ; はや | Scooter + Bundle | You jump on your scooter with a big bundle to go as fast as you can! You have a bundle of pizzas in here, and they need to be delivered as fast as you can get them there! Imagine how fast you can go on your scooter holding this bundle. It's way faster than trying to go on foot, that's for sure! You were going so fast, you only put on socks (そく). So now you're barreling down the street at top speeds in just your sad, white socks. Imagine riding the scooter as fast as you can in just your socks. You can feel the wind pulling them off your feet!
# | 了 | Finish, Complete, End | りょう | Barb | Think about it this way. There is a famous fishing lure inventor, working on his best work ever. He’s old, and he’s been trying to make the best fishing lure for the last 50 years, and knows this will be his last invention. Then he figures it out. He takes one barb, and connects the end of it to the top of another barb. When he does this, he knows his work is finally finished. Make sure you look at this amazing fishing lure too - hold it in your hand, see the two barbs fused together. Think about how strange this lure is. Is this really the best in the world? Will this really finish all other fishing lures? How does the fish lure maker test his newly finished lure out? The one he just finished? He gets in a row (りょう) boat and rows out into the sea. Make him think that he can’t just use his new lure on the side of the lake / ocean / whatever. He has to get out there, but unfortunately all he has is a crappy row boat. Imagine the row boat being terrible, leaky, and dangerous, which is why you’re surprised when he goes for it. That’s a terrible row boat to use! If you do this, you'll focus your mind on the rowboat part of things, which will help you to remember the reading of this kanji.
# | 頭 | Head | あたま, かしら ; ず, とう | Beans + Geoduck | If a geoduck eats lots of beans, its head will grow larger. To a geoduck, beans are a brain food, so by eating beans, a geoduck’s head will grow incredibly large. Geoducks already look strange enough as it is, let alone with engorged heads. Imagine, if you will, a geoduck. Now imagine that same geoduck with a massive head. It looks ridiculous, and more disgusting than ever. It’s actually really creeping you out, because the head keeps getting larger as the geoduck eats more beans. Ew. As the geoduck eats more and more beans, its head gets bigger and bigger until finally the geoduck’s head explodes like an atomic (あたま) bomb. BOOM! Geoduck parts go flying everywhere and pieces of the geoduck’s massive head float to the ground as atomic fallout. Remember how gross geoducks are? Of course you do. Now imagine one exploding right in front of you. You’ve got geoduck mess all over yourself. It’s gross, slimy, sticky, and covering you from head to toe. It’s wretched.
*** | 聞 | Hear | ぶん, もん ; き | Gate + Ear | If you press your ear up to a gate, you’re likely to hear what’s going on on the other side. The other people on the other side won’t know you are listening to their conversation because you are so sneaky and clever. They’ve no idea you’re on the other side of the gate hearing every word they say. I’m sure you’ve pressed your ear up against a wall, door, or gate at sometime to hear what’s going on on the other side of it. Remember back to a time you did this and how sneaky you felt listening in on people without them knowing. You sneaky frood, you. From the other side of the gate, you hear one of the people on the other side start to play a song on a recorder. You recognize the song as “Hot Cross Buns (ぶん).” You haven’t heard this song in a long time. “Hot cross buns… hot cross buns~” I’m sure many of you were forced to play the recorder in school at some point and were made to play the song known as hot cross buns. Picture yourself playing this song and remember the melody when you see this kanji.
# | 院 | Institution | いん | Building + Roof + Origin | This building has a roof and will teach you about the origin of many things. It's an institution! Institutions are places of learning, but they have to be a physical place with a roof and all that. If you're learning out in a field somewhere, that's probably not a proper institution. What does institution start with? In (いん)! Just remember, it's an IN-stitution, and you'll know this reading easy-peasy.
# | 調 | Investigate, Tone | ちょう ; しら | Say + Circumference | You say something about the circumference of this area. You've looked around this whole area, making a big circle around it, because you are trying to investigate something that happened here. You also say this thing in a really quiet tone of voice, because you don't want the person or thing you're investigating to know you're on to them. Because the radical circumference is in play, you can think of the crime scene you're investigating as a statue of a giant globe, and you're doing a circumference around it. Then, in the reading, we'll think about what you'll say. "I came here to investigate this place, and I did indeed find out who the criminal is... it's none other than Mrs. Chou (ちょう)!" From what you know about evil Mrs. Chou, you probably could have guessed it was her. The "Circumference Investigation" is now over, though you do still have to catch the perp, Mrs. Chou.
# | 鉄 | Iron | てつ | Gold + Fault | You look at some gold and notice a fault in it. You scrape at the fault and see that it's just sprayed with gold paint. It's not gold, it's (comparatively) worthless iron! You think you've found a ton of gold bars! Imagine being so happy about this. Then, imagine your heart dropping in your chest when you notice the fault. Then, it dropping down even farther when you figure out it's merely iron. Do you know that movie, Tetsuo (てつ) the Iron Man? We talked about it on Tofugu a while back. It’s one of the wackiest Japanese movies of all time. If you don’t know about Tetsuo the Iron Man, you should definitely look it up (if you aren't averse to horror/violent films). Tetsuo is one of the most insane movies in the history of ever. Watch a trailer on YouTube for Tetsuo the Iron Man. Go ahead, do it now – I’ll wait. Did you watch it? Remember that nonsense every time you see this kanji.
# | 語 | Language | ご ; かた | Say + Five + Mouth | What you say between five mouths is a language. As long as there are five different people saying these same words with their five mouths, it's considered its own language. Picture these five mouths saying the same language to each other. They can understand each other! The mouths are smiling and laughing too. Another mouth joins in speaking the language, but it's green and scaled and... it's Godzilla's (ご) mouth! Godzilla speaks this language too. Godzilla speaks a language some people understand! You wish you knew this earlier, then you might have been able to stop some of his destruction. Try to say, "Hey Godzilla, please stop destroying my city," in his language. It's a lot of growling and yelling. He doesn't seem to understand you. You better practice your pronunciation.
# | 葉 | Leaf, Leaves | は, ば ; よう | Flowers + World + Tree | In the world of flowers and trees, the most important thing is the leaf. Leaves are how flowers and trees get their nutrients from the sun! Leaves, no matter how little, are the most important thing in the world for them. Picture a little flower working really hard to grow its first leaf. The leaf pops out and it shouts, "Ha (は)!" は is the sound of a leaf coming into existence. Whenever you see a plant from now on, hear the little ha sound it makes when each leaf pops out of its body.
# | 習 | Learn | しゅう ; なら | Feathers + White | You find some white feathers and you want to learn more about where they came from and what they're made of. Picture yourself in a library poring through huge tomes on birds, feathers, and the history of white birds. You want to learn everything you can! You learn that you should tie these white feathers to your shoes (しゅう). You do it before you learn what it will do, and then suddenly you're jump-flying out of the building. Oh geez, oh no. You better learn how to control these shoes before you—CRASH!!! Welp, you just shot through a plane. You need to learn more before you act next time.
# | 軽 | Lightweight, Light, Light Weight | かる, かろ ; けい | Car + Tombstone | For a car, a tombstone is lightweight. Cars are very strong, you see, so something heavy like a tombstone is no match for them. All cars find tombstones to be light and easy to transport. Picture yourself trying to move a huge slab tombstone. It’s difficult, no? I bet you wish you had a car or some other vehicle to make the process much less painful. Your arms are getting sore from carrying the tombstone and you’re getting sweaty and hot from all the work. What you would do for a car with air conditioning. What do you wish you had to transport this tombstone? Oh, that’s right, a car. So you need some kind of car loophole (かる). If you had a car, this tombstone moving business would be no problem. To cars, tombstones are naught but lightweight pebbles! But the rules say you can't use cars to carry tombstones, so you need to find a car loophole. Remember all that hard work you were doing before and how you got all sweaty and gross? Now imagine yourself inside of a nice car with air conditioning, and the tombstone in the trunk. It feels great doesn’t it? The air conditioning is perfect, and driving a car is much easier than carrying a tombstone around. Thank goodness you found a car loophole in the tombstone carrying rules.
# | 線 | Line | せん | Thread + White + Water | If someone falls overboard while you're white water rafting, you can use a long piece of thread as a life line. Sure it might be thin, but a line of thread is better than nothing. Throw them a line and drag them back aboard! Those white water rapids are vicious. Imagine you're the person who fell overboard. The white water is rushing violently and it is deathly cold. Feel the water and freezing temperature on your skin. But look! Someone has thrown you a line of thread! You're saved! The person who threw you that line of thread is actually a centaur (せん). How kind of him. After you are safe you hop on the centaur's back and ride around to get the wind to dry you off. Coming out of the rushing water, this centaur is like an angel sent from heaven. He's just saved your life. Imagine the happiness and gratitude you feel towards this centaur as you are pulled to safety by that line of thread.
# | 最 | Most | さい ; もっと | Sun + Ear + Stool | Let the sun shine into your ear while sitting on a stool and make sure most of it gets in your head. You want to fill your brain with the most sun anyone ever has. Most of the sun is getting into your ear, but not all of it. Darn, maybe you should try angling yourself a different way. Most of this is for your cyborg (さい). You're testing out a new way to power it, but if you can't get most of the sun into your ear, it won't be enough to power most of the cyborg's robo-parts. Install the part into your cyborg. As long as most of the sun gets into its human ear, most of its cyborg bits will have power.
# | 開 | Open | かい ; あ, ひら | Gate + Lantern | A gate with a lantern is open for you. That's convenient, since it's pretty dark out and you might not have seen the open gate without the lantern's help. Imagine being a traveler, walking around the outside of a huge walled city. You really need to get inside but all of the gates are closed. Finally, you see a single, bright lantern marking the open gate! What a relief. This open gate is in the water though, so you'll need a kayak (かい) to get in. Luckily, you've been carrying your kayak with you just in case. Imagine kayaking in the dark toward an open gate. Finally, you've made it!
# | 頁 | Page | ページ, ぺーじ, かしら ; けつ, よう | Geoduck | Did you know that those strange geoduck creatures were once used to make pages? Okay maybe not, but it makes for a memorable image! Imagine the strange, gooey books you'd end up with if you used geoducks for pages. Now imagine flicking through one of those books, and getting the slimy geoduck residue on your hands as you look at the pages. A page is a page (ページ). Since the reading comes from the English word "page", this one shouldn't be too hard to remember, especially if you've already come across it in katakana.
# | 親 | Parent, Intimacy | しん ; おや, した | Stand + Tree + See | If you're standing under a tree and you see your parent, it's a good chance for a moment of intimacy. Imagine yourself standing in the shade of a beautiful, big, old tree. You see your parent walk past and shout out to them. They come and join you, and it's like the two of you are the only two people in the world right now. That's intimacy. Standing under the tree, you go to give your parent a big hug, but you manage to bang your shin (しん)  on a huge tree root. Your parent pulls you in for a warm hug and rubs your shin. Despite the pain, it becomes an unforgettable "shin-timate" moment. Busting your shins on things really hurts. I'm sure you've hit your shins on coffee tables and the like all your life. Remember that pain and think how much worse it would be banging your bare shins on pointy tree roots just when you were enjoying a moment of parental intimacy. Not enjoyable.
# | 公 | Public | こう | Fins + Private | You have fins in private. But, you want the world to see them, so you take them public. Picture yourself in private, with fins. You wish others could see them. "That's it," you decide. "It's time to show the world. I'm going to make my fins public!" You head out into the public where everyone can see your fins, but... things have changed. All people are the same. There are thousands of こういちs walking around, and they all stare at you (though they pretend like they aren't). How long have you been hiding in private with your fins? The public areas have changed, and all the people have become こういちs. One mother こういち--pushing a baby こういち--looks up and stares at your fins. Now you remember why you never go out in public.
*** | 読 | Read | よ ; とう, どく, とく | Say + Sell | You have to say what you’re selling because people don’t like to read. If they walk right by and don’t read, you better say what you have for sale so they’ll know! Read it out loud to them. Imagine reading what you have for sale out loud to people walking by because they’re too lazy to read it for themselves. What are you forced to read aloud to sell? Yo-yo (よ) instructions! You’d think they’d be self explanatory, but there are actually a lot of rules and tricks that you have to read to get good at yo-yoing. Read all of these out loud so you can sell them. Imagine reading through your list of yo-yo tricks. Do you know how to pronounce those weird yo-yo names?
# | 求 | Request | きゅう ; もと | Ground + Water + Drop | On the ground is a water drop you spilled, so I request you wipe it up. I would do it myself, but you're the one who spilled it, so I'm requesting you do it and take responsibility for your mistake. It's a simple request, really. Just wipe up that water drop off the ground. Oh, one more thing. I request that you wipe up the water with this cucumber (きゅう). "But cucumbers are already mostly water, this isn't going to absorb anything!" you cry. Well too bad. That's my request, so you better do it. Figure out how to make the cucumber work.
# | 転 | Revolve | てん ; ころ | Car + Cloud | If your car runs into a cloud you'll revolve around it instead of going straight through. Clouds are really hard to see through, so even though you're trying not to, you revolve in a tight circle up and around the cloud anyway. Imagine driving your car around and around the cloud, instead of going through it. At least it's soft and cool. You have to revolve around the cloud ten (てん) times before it disappears and you're able to go through. Unfortunately, not long after you get through that cloud another one comes down and gets in your way. Now you're counting each revolution, one... two... three... all the way up to ten.
# | 路 | Road | ろ ; じ, みち | Foot + Kiss | If you’ve been walking all day, nobody is going to want to kiss your foot if you’ve been walking barefoot down a dirt road. Your feet are filthy, sweaty, and stinky. Nobody is going to want to kiss those feet. Imagine kissing someone’s foot. Now imagine kissing someone’s foot after they’ve been walking down a dirt road for hours. It’s disgusting. Smell the stench of dirt and sweat wafting up into your nostrils as the foot approaches your lips. It’s wretched. What was this person walking down again? Oh, that’s right – a road (ろ). They were walking down a dirt road. Walking down a dirt road barefoot like this is a sure way to dirty up your feet. Feel the dirt, rocks, and twigs under your feet. The road is hard and dry and is not making your journey very comfortable at all.
# | 病 | Sick, Sickness, Ill, Illness | びょう ; や, やまい | Sick + Dynamite | A sick stick of dynamite is going to be sick forever. Unfortunately there are no medicines that are effective on sticks of dynamite, so once they contract a sickness, they’re sick for good. Imagine if you were a sick stick of dynamite. Every time you sneezed you ran the risk of blowing up. It would be a terrifying way to live. Just imagine it. Being nervous all the time about spontaneously exploding would probably make you sweat profusely. And you know what sweating causes? B.O. (びょう). You’d be one smelly stick of dynamite. B.O. is a very unpleasant smell, and being sick is no excuse. Picture this as your life. You could explode at any moment, you’re sick, and you have B.O. Nobody wants to be around you because you might explode and kill them, and you stink. What a terrible way to live!
# | 横 | Side, Horizontal | よこ ; おう | Tree + Yellow | The tree marked with a yellow X on the side of the house is going to get cut down. You’ve marked it with a yellow X so the hired help knows which tree to cut down. There are a lot of trees on the side of the house, but the tree marked with a yellow X is the only one in danger of causing damage to your roof in the event of a storm. Picture the scene of a woman with a chainsaw cutting down this tree marked with a yellow X. Hear the sound of the chainsaw buzzing and the grinding of wood as it meets the side of the trunk. It’s very loud. Woodchips go flying everywhere. Wait, that woman with the chainsaw is Yoko (よこ) Ono! Yes, the same Yoko Ono who’s married to John Lennon of the Beatles. What’s she doing chopping down trees on the side of your house? Who can say. Silly Yoko. Now picture the same scene as before only imagining Yoko Ono wielding that chainsaw. Maybe she’s dancing. Maybe there’s some Beatles music playing in the background. Either way it’s a strange sight – remember it.
# | 歌 | Song, Sing | か ; うた | Lip Ring + Lack | If you lack a lip ring (or two in this case) it's going to make it way easier for you to sing a song. Imagine a song with lip rings. Then imagine one without. Sing them, pretending you have lip rings. It doesn't work as well. You're singing a song with all these lip rings in your mouth and you sound terrible. You're on the side of the road singing. People are freaking out. Finally, someone drives into you with their car (か). Imagine yourself getting hit by this car. All the air flies out of you as you sing your song. You think "I shouldn't have tried to sing a song with all these lip rings..."
# | 起 | Wake Up | お ; き | Run + Oneself | Run into oneself in a dream and you'll definitely wake up. If you run into yourself, it really messes you up, you know? You won't be able to handle what you're seeing so you have to wake up. If one runs into oneself and you don't wake up, just look down at your waist. If you're wearing an obi (お) you know it's a dream and you'll eventually wake up. If you aren't wearing an obi then it isn't a dream and you don't have anything to wake up from. Your obi is like a special object you only have in dreams. If you have your obi, it's okay, it's a dream and you can wake up now! Make sure you memorize exactly how it feels so dream-you can't trick you or something.
# | 功 | Achievement, Accomplishment | こう | Construction + Power | Using your construction power you build something great. A true achievement built for the achievement of making kanji learning easier! Just constructing this thing was an achievement. Feel proud like it was, well, an achievement. This achievement was made possible by こういち, so of course this construction project is a giant statue of the man himself. What an achievement of a statue. What an achievement of an achievement. Thanks こういち. Now everyone will know of your achievements around kanji learning and inside-out earth theory. Hint: When you see 工 in a kanji it will often take the こう reading. Remember that, because it comes up quite a bit!
# | 成 | Become | せい ; な | Drunkard + Sword | When a drunkard holds a sword it becomes something else. The drunkard doesn't become a swordsman, they're still just a drunkard. But the sword in their hands does. Picture the drunkard standing in front of you. He picked up the sword and is holding it above his head. It's becoming... becoming... The sword has become a saber (せい)! It's just like the saber you have! Hey, wait. If a sword becomes a saber in the hands of a drunkard... then what are you? Geez this became pretty deep. You slice down the drunkard with your saber and become a little more depressed than you were before.
# | 岸 | Coast, Shore | がん ; きし | Mountain + Cliff + Dry | The mountain on top of the cliff is dry from the coast below. Just from looking at the raging shore below, you'd think everything would be wet, it's splashing everywhere! You're on top of the mountain and the entire coast is stretching out below. The shore goes as far as your eyes can see. Sitting up there, watching the coast with you, is Gandhi (がん). The world famous Gandhi, is just hanging out up here with you, looking down at what you now realize must be a coast in India. Sit down next to Gandhi and close your eyes. You can hear the water hitting the shore below. The coastal birds are screaming. You crack open an eye and see Gandhi still sitting perfectly still.
# | 競 | Compete | きょう, けい ; きそ | Stand + Older Brother | Standing next to your older brother is another standing older brother of yours. They're trying to compete, to see which of them can stand the straightest and tallest. Picture your two older brothers competing like this. Are you going to root for one of them? That's not very nice, you shouldn't have a favorite older brother. Your older brothers are trying to compete to see which of them gets to go to きょうと with you. You won a free trip to きょうと, but there's only one other ticket, so now your brothers are competing for you. Look really closely at your older brothers. They're competing pretty hard for your attention. They really want to go to きょうと... but which one do YOU want to spend time with the most?
# | 争 | Conflict | そう ; あらそ | Prison + Wolverine + Barb | If you keep a wolverine in a prison with barbs, you’re likely to get into a conflict with animal rights groups. Wolverines aren’t meant to be kept in cages, let alone barbed prisons. There’s going to be some sort of conflict here, and animal activist groups are not going to be happy with you. Imagine you’re the wolverine in this barbed prison. There’s hardly enough room for you to even turn around in here. The barbs keep poking you as well. Have you ever run into a barbed wire fence? It’s not pleasant. When the wolverine cuts itself inside the barbed prison (which is inevitable), the conflict changes. Now there is a conflict between the wolverine and its soul (そう). Does it lose it and become a shell of its former self? Or does it keep fighting and try to hang onto what's left of its soul? Pretend you're the wolverine once again. You're already in pain from gouging yourself in this barbed prison. But now you can feel a conflict within yourself. Your soul can't take this. You have to hold on, but it's so hard to keep fighting.
# | 便 | Convenience, Convenient | べん, びん ; たよ | Leader + Ground + Rice Paddy + Treasure | A leader stands upon the ground of the rice paddy. She is searching for treasure. It is said that this treasure here in this rice field will make things much easier for the leader (that's what leaders really want, after all). If she gets this treasure, it will be a great convenience for her, because convenience is everything when you're the leader. Imagine the leader looking around the rice paddy. She keeps saying, "Ugh, it would be convenient if I didn't have to walk around out here looking for the treasure that's going to make things more convenient for me. Ugh." Go ahead and say this phrase out loud, too, pretending to be the leader in the rice paddy. Feel the cold and the wet, making it less convenient for you. She finds a place to dig in the ground. It looks like there's some fresh dirt here. Finally, the treasure of convenience that will make this leader's life so much easier. She digs into the ground and pulls out a box. When she opens it, she finds out it's a bento (べん). "My god," she thinks. "This really will make my life more convenient. My people can take their lunches with them now instead of coming back to base to eat, which will waste way less time!" Feel the happiness that the leader would feel at this revelation. It will make everything much more convenient for her, since she's not the one doing all the manual labor. She won't have to eat out of a bento, that's for sure.
# | 老 | Elderly | ろう | Coffin + Spoon | By the time you finish digging a coffin hole with nothing but a spoon, you’ll be an old elderly person. Digging with nothing but a spoon takes a long time, especially when the hole needs to be big enough for a coffin. You might as well be digging it for yourself at this rate. By the time you finish, you’ll be all wrinkled and elderly and just about ready to keel over. Imagine yourself digging a coffin hole with nothing but a spoon. Your hands get all cramped, your wrist starts to hurt, and you get painful blisters on your hands. It takes forever to dig a hole big enough for a coffin! Now that you’re elderly (and probably about to die) you suddenly crave some delicious roe (ろう). Salmon roe, sea urchin roe, tofugu roe, doesn’t matter. Your old, tired bones need roe after all that hard work! You hated roe when you were still young, but now that you’re an elderly old fart you really want to eat it. Roe is for old people, you guess, as you slurp it up.
# | 命 | Fate, Life | めい, みょう ; いのち | Orders + Mouth | Orders coming from your mouth will determine the fate of your soldiers. You are their commanding officer and your orders determine their life and death. Pretend you are a high ranking officer and imagine yourself giving orders to your underlings. Imagine all the power and influence you have. It feels good. You are the commanding officer on the Mayflower (めい). You give orders to colonize America. The orders spewing from your mouth hole determine the fate of the settlers and the fate of America and the fate of the world! You and the Mayflower have changed everything forever. Students of American history are very familiar with the Mayflower. Recall learning about it in school whenever you see this kanji. Or look it up on Wikipedia if you don’t know about it. The Mayflower is a big deal!
# | 指 | Finger | し ; ゆび, さ | Fingers + Spoon + Sun | Try to use your fingers to spoon out some of the sun and you'll come back with just one finger. Look down at your finger and the burned stumps where the rest of your fingers used to be. It hurts. And you're sad. But at least you still have one finger left. Don't worry, you aren't the only one out there with just one finger, sheep (し) only have one finger too. I mean, they're hooves, which are really just a single animal finger. It's just big and kind of flat. Picture sitting with a sheep. It's right across from you, staring into your eyes. It reaches out its sheep finger hoof and you reach out with your finger. They touch. It's magical.
# | 初 | First | しょ ; はじ, はつ, そ, ぞ | Spirit + Sword | If you want a spirit sword, you have to be the first one to find it. Do you really think the first person to come across a spirit sword wouldn't want it?! No. So if you're any place but first, you're not getting anything. Imagine it like commenting on Youtube or Facebook. If you can say FIRST, first, well congrats. You win the internet spirit sword. If you were lucky enough to be the first one to find the spirit sword, you should open up a small show (しょ) to show it off! And then you can make yourself the first in line every day to see the show. This is the first show of this type, anywhere in the world!
# | 味 | Flavor, Taste | み ; あじ | Mouth + Jet | What is the jet of your mouth? It's flavor. It's what shoots your mouth off, which explains why it hurts so much when you eat something awesome. Imagine how your favorite food tastes. Imagine a jet taking off in your mouth because of it. And what has more flavor than a big slab of meat (み)? You love meat and its flavor nearly as much as you love the flavor of its juice. So many good things to put in your mouth! Of course, if you're vegetarian imagine the flavor of the meat being terrible. Up to you. Make the mnemonic work for your lifestyle.
# | 追 | Follow, Chase | お ; つい | Scooter + Bear + Drop | On a scooter there is a bear with a drop on its head trying to follow and chase you! You accidentally splashed it with water and it's not happy about it. You're on your own scooter, luckily, but that doesn't make this any less terrifying. Picture the bear on its scooter with the offending drop of water on its head following really closely behind your scooter. You can almost feel his bear breath on your neck! The bear is trying to follow you because it wants your obi (お) as compensation for its injured pride. The obi is waving in the wind behind your scooter, and the bear is reaching out with its teeth to try and grab it. Picture the bear chasing you on its scooter, trying to reach out and grab the obi off your waist. The drop of water on its head is jiggling from the exertion. Woah, it's getting a little too close!
# | 神 | God | しん, じん ; かみ | Spirit + Humble | You should have a spirit that's humble when before a god. You never really have to act all nice and humble before anyone else, but if you meet a god... well... you should probably lower yourself appropriately. They can smite you and all that. Imagine a spirit appearing before you. It's a god. You should be as humble as possible. Out of respect and also because you don't want to be cursed or something. When you see a god, you need to get down on your shins (しん). Get down on your ankles? No, not low enough. Knees? No, no, get your shins flat on the ground to show how humble you really are. Luckily, you're wearing jeans (じん), so at least that will stop your poor shins getting chafed! If you don't get down on your shins before god, they could take them away. Even your jeans couldn't protect you then. You don't want to live a shin-less life, do you?
# | 良 | Good | りょう ; よ, い | Drop + Root | A drop of water to a root is good. It's good for the roots to grow and live and thrive. And what's good for roots is good for our plants and us humans too. Imagine putting a little drop of water over a root you want to grow. Doing this is good for the plant and also good for your soul. A good way to get a lot of drops of water for your roots is to buy a row boat (りょう). Then just row out to the middle of the lake and plonk all the roots right into the source! Rowing even feels good on your arms and back. Probably just as good as all these roots will feel.
# | 意 | Idea | い | Sound + Heart | The sound of your heart gives me an idea. The methodic thump thump thumping of a heart puts me in a trance that gives me great ideas. It’s a very inspirational sound, the sound of a heart is. It gives me an idea. Alternatively, you could look at this kanji and see a "stand" radical and something that kind of (almost) looks like the kanji for "think." When you stand up and think, you come up with your very own ideas! Put your hand over your heart, or on your wrist, or somewhere you can feel your pulse. Your heart is pumping blood through your body, hear the sound of your heart beat and try to picture and get an idea for how all the blood flows through your body. The heart of an eagle (い) is very strong. The person who knew this probably came up with the idea to make the bald eagle a symbol of the United States. Eagles are always flying around and doing things, so their hearts are very strong. Picture the majestic animal that is the bald eagle. Imagine the sound of an eagle screeching as it zooms through the air, flapping its wings in the wind. It’s pretty impressive.
# | 労 | Labor | ろう ; いたわ | Viking + Power | A Viking in a position of power does not need to labor in the fields. Labor is for the weak! A Viking of power takes what he wants, and need not labor for it. A powerful Viking plunders all and takes what he wants! Imagine yourself as a powerful Viking. You have the power to take anything you want, pillaging and plundering to your heart’s content. Imagine all the things you would acquire with this sort of power. Note - there are a few other kanji that have a similar meaning to this one. This kanji is used in words related to physical, or manual labor, with an emphasis on how darn tiring it is! It takes a lot of labor to harvest roe (ろう) so that’s what the Viking decides to take first! Roe is delicious, but it’s small and delicate. Vikings don’t labor for their own roe! They take it and eat it! Picture this powerful Viking laying siege on a small fishing village and taking all the roe and stuffing it into his bearded face. So much labor went into harvesting that roe! Vikings are so mean!
# | 級 | Level, Grade, Rank | きゅう | Thread + Escalator | There are pieces of thread on each escalator showing you what level they go to in your school. Each escalator takes you to a different grade, so make sure you follow the right thread or you'll end up in a class that's either way above or way below your level. When you level up your Japanese skills, you'll take this escalator to rank up too! You want to see what the highest level is, so you go up the wrong escalator. At the top you find a giant cucumber (きゅう). A teacher comes over and says, "Excuse me, this is advanced level cucumber studies. I don't think you're at this level yet... please take the escalator down and follow the threads to find your level."
# | 好 | Like | こう ; す, この | Woman + Child | There is a woman and a child in front of you. You like them very much. Imagine a woman and a child you like very much. Just appreciate them, and think about how much you like those two. The reading mnemonic definitely won't ruin your image of them or anything. "I like you two," you say to the woman and child. They both turn their heads 180 degrees back towards you. They both have faces that look just like こういち's. "We like you too," they say in unison. And you DO like them. You have always been a fan of こういち's kanji learning methods, and you feel so lucky to have married a woman who looks just like こういち and then (this is the real miracle!) gave birth to a child that looks like こういち too. Hashtag blessed.
# | 昔 | Long Ago, Long Time Ago | むかし ; せき, しゃく | Blackjack + Sun | You’ve been playing blackjack in the sun since long ago. This is the longest game of blackjack you’ve ever played and it feels like ages since you started. You’ve been sitting out in the sun playing blackjack since long, long ago. Imagine yourself playing a never-ending game of blackjack out in the hot sun. You’re sticky, sweaty, and tired. But all you can do is continue to play your game of blackjack. It’s miserable. Once you finally finish the game, you walk the long walk back home, in the sun, barefoot, on a dirt road that hasn’t been maintained since long ago. Your feet are all sweaty from being out in the sun, and walking on this dirt road gives you muck ashi (むかし). Your ashi (feet) are all mucky and muddy from the combination of dirt and sweat. Your muck ashi are really gross, man. Imagine your muck ashi, all dirty and muddy from walking on that old road from long ago. Feel the muck between the toes of your ashi, squishing with every step. Hear the sound the mud makes as it slides between your sweaty mucky toes.
# | 低 | Low | てい ; ひく | Leader + Clan + Ground | The leader of your clan wants to live close to the ground so he demands you get low. Low, low, with your belly to the ground. That way you're always below him, since he's the leader. Picture yourself, face smooshed into the ground, and you can hear the leader shouting above you, "GET LOW!" Low people like you can only eat low food like potatoes. But that's boring, so you low people learned to make tater (てい) tots. You roll them to each other and eat them without lifting your heads. Get low to the ground right now and ask your mom or dad to roll some tater tots towards your face. Eat them up, mm mm.
# | 育 | Nurture, Raise | いく ; そだ, はぐく | Trash + Moon | Give trash to the moon and it will nurture and raise that trash like it's its own little moon baby. Picture the moon raising this ball of trash, giving it love and attention. The moon nurtures the trash ball until one day, it speaks! "行く (いく), 行く！" it says. It wants to go live with mom moon! Watch as the little trash ball 行くs up into the sky and floats around its moon mama. If you raise your child right it will want to 行く wherever you go too.
# | 令 | Orders | れい | Orders | If you know the radical meaning orders you know the kanji meaning orders as well! Here's an order: study your radicals. Your orders are to get a ray (れい) gun. Imagine an authority figure giving you this order as an official order. Ray guns don't really exist, so you think it's a pretty strange order. Hint: when you see the orders radical, the reading will often be れい. The mnemonic will likely involve orders to get a ray gun of some kind.
# | 拾 | Pick Up | ひろ ; しゅう | Fingers + Suit | You see something that would suit you so you use your fingers and pick up the thing you want. You can pick up anything you think suits you. A shiny rock. A new pair of pants. Anything! Imagine something that would suit your life and your style. Now pick up that thing. Hold it in your fingers. Feel it. It's yours now. You're walking around looking for something to pick up when you see a sword in a rock. Yes, this will suit you. You pick up the sword and people jump out around you and tell you that you are the new hero (ひろ)! Uh oh. Maybe you shouldn't have picked this up. You picked up the hero sword and now you're the new hero. Time to go kill a dragon. Good luck, try not to die hero person!
# | 注 | Pour | ちゅう ; そそ, さ, つ | Tsunami + Master | A tsunami master has the power to pour water wherever he pleases. Tsunami masters are masters over the most powerful water force in the universe, so it makes sense that they have the ability to pour water at will, wherever they please. Best not tick off the master, unless you want a tsunami poured on your head. Picture yourself as this tsunami master. You’re like a water bender from Avatar, only more awesome. Feel the cold wet water pouring out of your fingertips as you create water out of nothing. Imagine what it would be like to have this power. If Chewbacca (ちゅう) was trying to attack you, you’d be able to defend yourself easily. Simply pour a tsunami on him and Chewbacca would surrender in a heartbeat. Chewbacca doesn’t like having water poured on him, especially not all the water from a tsunami. Imagine Chewbacca soaking wet. All his fur is matted down and he looks pretty depressed. He smells like wet dog too. Smell this smell in your nostrils as you imagine how pathetic this drenched Chewbacca feels.
# | 利 | Profit, Benefit, Advantage | り ; き | Grain + Knife | Cut grains with a knife to make them smaller and you'll make a great profit. By cutting them, now you can get three grains worth of money for what was once a single grain. Imagine buying some rice. Now cut all the grains with a knife into smaller grains. Now sell them for two, three, four times the profit! To make an even better profit, you decide to cut up reeds (り) too. You stuff the grains in the reeds and sell that as "self-cooking" sets. Picture all of your reeds full of grains in a row. The entire world will benefit from your crafty invention. And you'll turn a great profit too, which certainly doesn't hurt.
# | 位 | Rank | い ; くらい | Leader + Stand | A leader stands at the highest rank in an organization. The leader is of the highest rank and stands above all others. Picture this great leader. Imagine him actually standing on the shoulders of his supporters who are a lower rank than he is. He’s standing atop this great pyramid as a fearless leader. This great leader is actually the leader of the boy scouts. And as we all know, the highest rank in boy scouts is the rank of eagle (い) scout. This great leader has attained the rank of eagle scout and stands above all other scouts. Picture the same ranking pyramid from before, only all the members are boy scouts, and the leader at the top is an eagle. Hear the piercing screech of the eagle with your ears.
# | 仲 | Relationship | なか ; ちゅう | Leader + Middle | A middle of the road leader is likely to have an average relationship with everyone. He doesn’t really take sides in matters, and just stays in the middle. This makes him seem like sort of a wishy washy people pleaser, and as such his relationships with people are rarely anything more than average. I’m sure you’ve heard of “flip-floppers” in politics, or people who try and take both sides of an issue, always staying in the middle ground and never really taking a stand. Imagine one of these people to represent this kanji. This kanji is pronounced exactly like the kanji 中 (なか). It's one of those kanji where you can figure out the reading from one of the radicals. Imagine your favorite flip-flopper from before. Now imagine that there’s a knocker on his forehead and you get to knock that knocker as hard as you like. Sounds like fun, doesn’t it? Imagine yourself doing this.
# | 放 | Release | ほう ; はな, ほう | Direction + Winter | When winter comes your direction, the trees must release their leaves for the coming cold. Picture winter heading straight for you and frosting everything over. Now picture the leaves being released by the trees. The trees release all of their leaves onto your home (ほう). Slowly, you watch in horror as your home is consumed by the released leaves. They enter in through the windows, doors, and the chimney. "Release my home from this leaf prison!" you shout at the now bare trees.
# | 秒 | Second | びょう | Grain + Few | You only got a few grains on your plate. It only takes you a  second to eat them. It can't take any longer because there were so few. Count how many seconds it takes for you to eat the few grains you have. One... oh, they're gone. And also, a second is how long it takes for your awful B.O. (びょう) to appear. Whenever you eat a few grains, even if only for a second, you get a terrible reaction seconds later that causes some pretty terrible B.O.
# | 別 | Separate | べつ ; わか | Mouth + Sword + Knife | In your mouth you put a sword and a knife. Now that you have them in there, you have to make them separate from each other. Anyone can put a sword and knife in their mouth. But not everyone can make them separate while still in your mouth. Why are you trying to make a sword and knife separate in your mouth? Because someone bets (べつ) you can't do it. "I bet you can't separate the sword and knife," they say in an annoying voice. Alright, time for you to show them. Nobody bets you anything without you blindly trying to do it!
# | 特 | Special | とく | Cow + Temple | This cow temple is special. This cow must have been very important to have an entire temple dedicated to it. Picture a temple dedicated to a single cow. All of the people who come and worship here have a special place in their hearts for the cow. This cow is special because it belonged to Tokugawa (とく) Ieyasu, the first shōgun of the Tokugawa shogunate and uniter of Japan! He's a super important figure in Japanese history. You should absolutely look him up and read a bit about him (when you're caught up on these lessons, that is). You walk up to a statue of the special cow in the temple and see a collar around its neck that says "Tokugawa Moo Moo" on it. How... special!
# | 共 | Together | きょう ; とも | Blackjack + Fins | The card game fish are best at is blackjack because they can easily hold the cards with their fins together. In blackjack you don't have to have a huge hand, full of cards. It's just a few, so fish fins can keep them together and just hit or stay. Imagine a fish trying to hold a full hand of cards together. Impossible! Fish don’t have fingers to keep them spread properly. Now imagine a fish trying to hold two cards together and nodding to hit. It's much easier to keep things together this way! Once a year trillions of fish get together in きょうと to play blackjack. They have a huge tournament there once a year. Imagine a bunch of fish gathering together in きょうと to participate in this blackjack tournament. With so many fish all together in one place, it probably smells pretty fishy.
# | 努 | Toil | ど ; つと | Woman + Stool + Power | A woman of power sits on a stool while her servants toil away in the kitchen. They are toiling away preparing a feast for this woman of power while she kicks back on her cozy stool. She’s a queen and deserves to be pampered. Imagine you are in a position of power and can relax on a stool while your minions toil away in the kitchen to prepare you a feast. It’s good to have money! You’ve got it made. Imagine how smug you feel. Note - there are a few other kanji that have a similar meaning to this one. This kanji is used in words that refer to doing work, with a focus on making a concerted effort. The servants are making lots of food for you and your dog (ど). You're really hungry, so you encourage your minions to toil away faster so that you might feast a bit sooner. Imagine eating all this food with your dog. Hear your dog barking as it woofs up the food next to you as you do the same.
# | 伝 | Transmit, Tell | でん ; つた, つて | Leader + Cloud | The leader has a cloud that he uses to transmit all of the messages he needs to send to his people. The cloud floats above him and when he wants to tell people something he just whispers into the cloud and it transmits his message really, really loudly to all of them. Picture this special cloud floating above your leader. It's probably just a speaker attached to a drone covered in cotton balls. As the leader transmits his latest series of messages to you and the others, you notice a pretty large dent (でん) in it. That dent is probably a clue to what this cloud is really made of. You highly doubt this is a magical cloud that can transmit messages. You inch closer to the big dent and try to poke it. Your finger goes right in! Hmm, you're still pretty sure there's a trick to this thing.
# | 戦 | War, Battle | せん ; たたか, いくさ | Simple + Drunkard | Even a simple drunkard can start a war. In fact, it's really common for one simple drunk person to offend an entire country into declaring war. Think about all of the people you know. You can picture at least one of them getting drunk and, I dunno, sending out a simple drunk tweet that starts the next world war. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ Welp, you woke up this morning and now you're at war with the centaurs (せん). This is especially unfortunate, because the centaurs are really good at battles because they're all automatically cavalry troops. Imagine the war of humans vs centaurs. Do you really think the humans will win? Centaurs are really powerful and they have all of the same high tech weapons as us AND horse legs.
# | 波 | Wave | は ; なみ | Tsunami + Skin | A tsunami hits your skin and creates smaller waves. Those hit you too! If you’ve ever been to the ocean or a large lake, you know what kind of forces even small waves can hit with. Now imagine the force with which a tsunami wave would strike you. You’d have the wind knocked out of you for sure. When each wave hits your body, you shout, "Ha (は)!" It's not like it's on purpose. When the wave crashes into you, the wind gets knocked right out of your mouth, making a HA sound. The waves are basically punching you in the gut, forcing the air out of your lungs, and making you shout HA!
# | 洋 | Western Style, Ocean | よう | Tsunami + Sheep | A sheep rides a tsunami in classic Western style. And by Western style I mean the sheep is dressed in a cowboy outfit and has put a saddle atop the tsunami wave to ride it. It’s a tsunami rodeo and this crazy sheep is riding that tsunami wave in classic Western style. This kanji also means ocean, because presumably the people from the "West" who have "Western Style" came from across the ocean. They're the "Ocean People" in this sense. You'll want to be familiar with this meaning for vocab later on. Imagine how ridiculous a sheep would look all decked out in Western style cowboy gear. Now imagine it riding a tsunami wave as it screams, “Baa~ baa~ baa~!” After a whole day of riding this tsunami, the sheep is hankerin’ for some Western style food. This sheep loves yogurt (よう). And its favorite flavor is Western style apple pie yogurt. America loves its apple pie and this sheep loves Western style apple pie flavored yogurt. Imagine yourself eating this Western style apple pie yogurt. It tastes just like apple pie only creamier and fruitier. Taste the sweet yogurt in your mouth as you imagine yourself scarfing some down.
# | 誰 | Who | だれ | Say + Turkey | Who will say turkey? Who? WHO??? Say "who" over and over again, demanding someone says "turkey," for some reason. Then, someone says turkey. "Who said turkey? You? How dare (だれ) you." You're so mad at that person even though you demanded someone say turkey.
# | 働 | Work | どう ; はたら | Leader + Heavy + Power | A leader with a lot of power can move heavy things with hardly any work. By power, I mean a lot of strength because this leader is very strong and moving heavy things is no problem for her. Her power allows the leader to move heavy things with little to no work at all. Picture this powerful leader, muscles flexing as she picks up heavy things and casually tosses them aside. How does she maintain so many muscles? Note - there are a few other kanji that have a similar meaning to this one. This kanji is used in words that refer to doing work, with a focus on movement or physical operation of a device. Where does this leader’s power come from? Doughnuts (どう). She eats nothing but doughnuts. She has a special crew of bakers that work for her in the castle and they work all day to make the leader doughnuts of power. They are imbued with many secret ingredients that give the leader the power to move anything, no matter how heavy it is. Picture yourself eating one of these power doughnuts. It’s delicious. Doughnuts are fantastic. Taste the fresh doughnut in your mouth as it crumbles and melts on your tongue. It’s the best doughnut you’ve ever had.
# | 悪 | Bad, Evil | あく, お ; わる | Asia + Heart | In Asia they assume everyone's heart is automatically bad and evil. You don't want a bunch of evil in your heart, do you? No, I didn't think so. Luckily, people in Asia know how to get the evil badness out of your heart with acupuncture (あく). Acupuncture was originally invented in Asia a long, long time ago, to stop the bad chi from going through your heart.
# | 息 | Breath | そく ; いき | Self + Heart | Imagining one’s self without a heart can make it hard to draw breath. Without a heart, you’d have no blood pumping and you would start to die. This would make it increasingly harder to draw breath and get oxygen to stay alive. Imagine trying to live without a heart. You couldn’t. Your blood stops flowing and your body shuts down. You would no longer be able to draw breath. You know how when people are unconscious and their breath slows or comes to a stop, they use smelling salts to revive them? Well a smelly sock (そく) can work just as well. Socks get really stinky and their stench is powerful enough to revive someone who isn’t drawing breath. Imagine smelling this smelly sock. Imagine the smelly stench of the dirty sock wafting up into your nostrils and filling your lungs with its odor. Gross.
# | 章 | Chapter | しょう | Stand + Early | You stand at a podium early in the morning to practice reading the chapter from your latest book. Picture yourself, standing tall in the light of the early morning. You hold your head up high, open to your bookmark, and read the name of the chapter aloud: "Chapter 42: The Most Important Number." You're practicing this specific chapter because you've been asked to read it for the Shougun (しょう). There will be a bunch of other authors reading chapters of their books to him too, and you want to make a good impression. Picture yourself in a line with other authors, standing in the early morning, waiting to read chapters from your respective books. You really hope the Shougun likes yours. If he does, you'll be famous! If he doesn't, you might be beheaded.
# | 登 | Climb | とう, と ; のぼ | Tent + Beans | You're in a tent eating beans because you're trying to climb a mountain! When you climb, you sleep in a tent and eat only beans (the ultimate climbing food). Imagine climbing slowly and carefully up a cliff on the side of this mountain. Your tent and your beans are tied to your back, and you're letting out little farts with each step from all the beans you've been consuming. You climb and climb and climb until you finally reach... とうきょう! At the top of this mountain you've been climbing you can see all of とうきょう. It's beautiful! It's breathtaking! All your climbing makes this view of とうきょう even more worthwhile! Oh, what was the name of the とうきょう mountain you just worked so hard to climb? Mount Takao. (You should go climb it with your real body and see とうきょう with your real eyes sometime!)
# | 寒 | Cold | さむ ; かん | Roof + Spring + Ice | The roof, even though it's almost spring, is still covered in ice so it's cold. Inside the house is cold, outside the house is cold. Everything is cold! Picture the entire roof covered in ice. It's supposed to be spring right now, but it's too cold for the ice to melt off your roof. You can't stand the cold anymore, so you hire a samurai (さむ) to come try to hack the ice off of your roof with his sword. You stand outside shivering, and watching as the samurai tries to stab the ice off of your roof. The samurai isn't doing a good job stopping the cold, and soon he and his sword have frozen into your ice roof. So now it's cold and you have a dead samurai stuck to your house. Great.
# | 深 | Deep | しん ; ふか | Tsunami + Pi + Tree | The force of a tsunami is enough to put a gash in a tree about pi (3.14) feet deep. Tsunamis are pretty powerful, so the force of the water alone is enough to cut into a tree several feet deep. Picture this tsunami wave hitting the tree. It’s like a lumberjack axe of water, cutting deep into the tree with the force of a thousand lumberjacks. Some tsunamis cut so deep that they flat out chop the tree right off its stump. In areas like this, you have to be careful not to bang a shin (しん) on them. These stumps are right about shin height, so you want to be cautious when walking around them as to not injure yourself. Imagine being deep in the woods and banging your shin on a stump you didn’t see. It hurts to bang your shin, so imagine this pain and the awful sensation it brings.
# | 倍 | Double, Times, Multiply | ばい | Leader + Clown | A leader who hires his own personal clown will likely double his entertainment. Clowns are funny and make people laugh, so the leader decided to hire one. Since that time, the leader’s amount of mirth has doubled. This also means times, which makes sense when you think about the kind of math you'll need to double something. What is A * 2? It's A doubled, first of all, but you're using multiplication. You're "timesing" something. Picture a clown and all the ridiculous funny things they do. Imagine the clown throwing a pie at someone’s face and how funny that is. Chuckle to yourself and remember this kanji. When the clown stops being funny, it’s time to say bye (ばい). At first, the clown doubled the leader’s entertainment, but now the clown is just annoying. It’s time to say bye-bye. This clown has served its purpose. Wave your hand in the air and say bye-bye to this worthless clown.
# | 勉 | Exertion | べん | Excuse + Power | You’ll have to excuse me, having all this power puts a lot of strain and exertion on my body. My power comes from exertion of muscle, so please excuse me if I start to perspire. Imagine yourself under great exertion. You’re attempting to use your power to move something and it’s really requiring a lot of exertion to move. Picture yourself doing this action and imagine how difficult it is. Excuse me, I don’t think I’ve introduced myself yet. My name is Ben (べん) and I use powerful muscle exertion to accomplish every task. Ben knows what Ben wants and how to get it. Remember that, kids. Picture this Ben in your head. Ben always uses lots of exertion to do tasks. Imagine him using an unnecessary amount of power and exertion in carrying out normal everyday tasks.
# | 消 | Extinguish | しょう ; き, け | Tsunami + Triceratops + Moon | A long time ago a huge tsunami swept a triceratops up into the moon and extinguished its life. I’m sure you’ve heard many theories on how dinosaurs went extinct. Well, this is the real story. Imagine this poor triceratops and all his friends being extinguished by this powerful tsunami, sweeping them up into the moon where there's no air to breathe or leaves to eat. This famous event where almost all life was extinguished is reenacted every year for the Shougun (しょう). He's got a bit of an unhealthy obsession with extinguishing life... Watch the Shougun's eyes light up as an actor dressed like a tsunami crashes into an actor dressed as a triceratops and all of the lights on the stage are extinguished. Spooky...
# | 祭 | Festival | さい ; まつり, まつ | Moon + Stool + Jackhammer | Under the moon, there’s a stool with a jackhammer on it. It’s all there for the festival. Festivals need activities, and at this festival, you can stand on a stool in the moonlight and use a jackhammer to make a lot of noise. Perfect for a festival! Imagine being at a moonlit festival and waiting in line for the stool with the jackhammer. You don't want to eat candy apples or ride rides, you want to wait for the jackhammer stool. This festival is for cyborgs (さい) only. Picture the cyborg you made getting excited that you're taking it to the festival. That's why all of the activities have to do with heavy machinery. The rides are mostly just cyborgs letting other people ride them, but it's still pretty fun. Imagine your cyborg going to this festival. Everyone here has some type of cyborg enhancement, like robotic arms, legs, or braces. Your cyborg is really excited to be around its people and play with jackhammers.
# | 野 | Field | や ; の | Village + Beforehand | The village beforehand (what the village was before it was a village) was a field. It makes sense for a big open field to have been what was there before the village was made. On this field, the Yankees (や) used to play. It was sad that they had to destroy the natural habitat of the Yankees (a field) to put up the village.
# | 階 | Floor, Story | かい | Building + Compare + White | Look at a building and compare the white parts. Each of those white parts is a floor. Multi-story buildings have tons of different floors that you can see from the outside. All buildings have white marks that you can compare with the rest to see where the floors are. You need to use your ability to tell where floors are from the outside of the building to find the story that lets kayaks (かい) in. You're coming from the side of the building surrounded by water, so you need to find the kayak floor to get in. Picture this building and each of its floors. There should be one floor in particular with a waterfall coming out of it that you can climb with your kayak.
# | 庭 | Garden | てい ; にわ | Canopy + Yoga + King | There's a canopy and a man called the Yoga King standing in the middle of your garden. Somehow your little garden is now being used by the Yoga King to teach yoga to a whole group of random people under this canopy... you have no idea how they got back here. Not only is this Yoga King taking over your garden, but he's ordering you to serve food to his class. "You there, peasant, fetch these people your freshest tater (てい) tots from this puny garden to give them strength." You're not sure what else to do, so you end up serving tater tots in your garden all day to stretchy strangers.
# | 港 | Harbor, Port, Harbour | こう ; みなと | Tsunami + Together + Oneself | There's a tsunami coming and you want to be together with it by yourself (oneself) so you go to the harbor. Picture the harbor. You're the only one there. The wind is whipping violently and all of the boats docked around you are being bounced around. You can see the tsunami rising out of the ocean and coming for you and the harbor. As you look around at the harbor in your last moments you suddenly see someone in the water. It's こういち! He's sitting in an inner tube in the harbor waiting for the tsunami too. Well this sucks. You wanted to enjoy being alone together with the tsunami and the harbor, but now こういち is here ruining your peace. He's floating around in the harbor like everything isn't about to be destroyed, sipping on a fancy drink in his inner tube.
# | 彼 | He | かれ, かの ; ひ | Loiter + Skin | If you loiter around my skin, he will get angry at you. He's my very protective friend, and you don't wanna make him angry! He's already eyeing you down, loitering this close to my skin. Might wanna... back up a little. He may get grumpy if you loiter around my skin, but a well-made curry (かれ) always brightens his mood. So give him some curry. Imagine him turning from a frown to a broad smile as he smells the fragrant curry you've brought.
# | 暑 | Hot, Hot Weather | あつ ; しょ | Sun + Someone | When someone goes out in the sun, they get hot. That’s just how it is. Someone standing out in the sun for a long time will inevitably get hot. The sun is hot, and it makes you get hot too. Imagine you are this someone, standing out in the hot sun. Feel the sun’s hot rays beating down on you as you stand outside. The hot sun makes you start to sweat and you get all sweaty and sticky from the heat. Note that this usually refers to the hot weather or the heat of an area you're in and doesn't refer to a hot "thing." You need to get out of this hot sun and into some air conditioning. Then you remember there’s a great air conditioning unit at Suzie’s (あつ) house. Ah, Suzie – our savior! If you need me, I’ll be at Suzie’s place. Imagine that great feeling when you go from hot and sticky outside to nice and air conditioned inside. Feel the heat transition on your skin as you step into an air conditioned room at Suzie’s. It gives you goose bumps.
# | 湯 | Hot Water | ゆ ; とう | Tsunami + Easy | If there's a tsunami it's easy to get hot water. Just stick your hand out the window as the tsunami goes by and poof! That water's HOT. Picture the boiling hot tsunami water as it comes for you. Psh, this will be easy. As the hot water comes, you just lift up the bottom of the yurt (ゆ) you live in, and it comes flowing in. All of the cups, pots, and barrels you laid on your floor are now full of hot water. You decided to live in a yurt because of the easy access it provides to hot water. They're so mobile!
# | 僕 | I, Me | ぼく | Leader + Business | A leader of business? Ha! That's me! That's I! This version of I is more boyish. It's a sort of young man/boy way of saying "I," though you'll hear women use it too sometimes (it's a teensy bit tomboyish though). You use the word I a lot. You say it so much, you just start referring to yourself with the french beaucoup (ぼく) for a lot. Because you love yourself a lot. I am beaucoup I am. (Is that a pun? Did I do it right?) I dunno. Just say ぼく a lot and try to connect all of your approximate knowledges of languages together. Merci ぼく from ぼく.
# | 島 | Island | しま ; とう | Bird + Mountain | A bird sits upon a mountain. If you look at the radicals, the bird is quite large and the mountain quite small. Think of this in the mnemonic as well. The reason the mountain is small is because you can only see the top of it, sticking out of the water. On it is the bird. This small mountain with the bird on it is an island. Imagine the mountain as small as you'd like. Maybe it's only barely sticking out of the sea, and the bird is having trouble standing on it. Whatever you do, make sure you think of it as an island, possibly owned by the bird. But this island doesn't only belong to the bird. In fact, the bird shouldn't be on this island, because it belongs to the Sheep Mama (しま), who is like Mother Nature but for sheep. The all-powerful Sheep Mama comes to kick the bird off the island, because this place is only for sheep! All hail the Sheep Mama. The Sheep Mama is a huge, majestic sheep with magical powers. She kicks the bird off the island with her hooves, and the bird squawks and flies away as fast as it can.
# | 童 | Juvenile | どう | Stand + Village | The people who stand in your village are juveniles. They aren't babies, who crawl, and they aren't adults who sit in front of their computers all day. They're juveniles who stand. Picture all of the juveniles standing in your village. You used to stand out there too and it was really boring, but at least kids these days have phones to keep them company. Right now all of the juveniles are standing in line to get doughnuts (どう). Free doughnuts, actually. Psh. Just like juveniles to get handouts, amirite? Look in disdain at the juveniles standing around with their delicious doughnuts. You're really jealous, I mean, you're really... mad! Those lazy... um... ah man. You really want one of those doughnuts. You miss being young.
# | 員 | Member | いん | Mouth + Shellfish | A shellfish with a mouth is a member of the invertebrate family. Yes, shellfish do have mouths, look it up! Imagine a shellfish opening and closing its mouth, talking to you and telling you what a proud member of its family it is. It’s a strange sight, but picture it in your mind anyway. If you were a member of the same shellfish family, you'd be able to go to the special shellfish inn (いん). Every species has a members-only inn. Imagine trying to go to the shellfish inn. Imagine all the members-only signs telling you that you can't come in. Womp womp.
# | 商 | Merchandise | しょう ; あきな | Stand + Mustache + Legs | A standing mustache with legs is able to sell merchandise. Most mustaches can’t stand because they don’t have legs. This mustache, however, does. It also has a keen business sense, which is why it’s selling merchandise. Imagine this mustache entrepreneur, standing at his merchandise stand, selling his wares. He looks quite dignified, legs and all. The mustache is selling his merchandise so well that even the Shougun (しょう) notices. He leans down really close to the standing mustache man's merchandise and stays very still. Then he snaps his fingers and his servants come rushing out to buy it all! Now all of the merchandise belongs to the Shougun. The mustache has nothing left to sell, but at least he's rich!
*** | 都 | Metropolis | と, つ ; みやこ | Someone + Building | Someone decided to build a bunch of buildings and turn them into a metropolis. You don't know who they are, but now an absolute ton of other someones you don't know also live here in these buildings and work in this busy metropolis. Imagine just how many different someones live in this metropolis. There are so many people, you'll never meet them all! You try to picture the faces of all the people who live in this metropolis, but for some reason you can only picture their toes (と). And there are ten times as many toes in this city than someones. If you think about it, every metropolis is completely jam-packed-full of toes. Just picture it. Toes. Everywhere. In every building. Filling up the streets.
# | 動 | Move | どう ; うご | Heavy + Power | When something is heavy, you need a lot of power to move it. It’s not going to move unless you use a lot of power. That thing is heavy and unless you use all the power you got, it’s not moving. Picture a massive 1 ton weight. It’s heavy. You can’t even begin to move it without some sort of powerful machine to help you. Imagine yourself trying to move it with just your bare hands. Remember that 1 ton weight? Well, actually it’s a doughnut (どう). A huge, massive, 1 ton doughnut. It’s super heavy and hard to move, but it’s delicious. Okay, so you don’t have enough power to move this doughnut as is. In order to move it, you’re going to have to use your superhuman power of eating. Once you eat enough of it, the remainder will be easy to move. Imagine yourself digging into this massive doughnut and taste its fresh baked goodness on your tongue. It’s mighty tasty.
# | 第 | Ordinal Number Prefix, Ordinal Prefix, Number | だい | Bamboo + Younger Brother | Bamboo's younger brother is counted with an ordinal number prefix. An ordinal number is one that represents a position or rank in sequential order (like first, second, third, etc.). We use this ordinal number prefix before counting these things in Japanese sometimes. Like with bamboo, going down in order toward the youngest. Imagine a line of bamboo shoots arranged from oldest to youngest. They look like pipe organ pipes, or a xylophone, and now you need to count them. To remember you need to use the ordinal number prefix before you count these bamboo, you dye (だい) them. Now they're in descending order already, and you can count them nice and easy thanks to your dye method.
# | 期 | Period Of Time, Time Period | き, ご | Crab + Moon | A crab left on the moon for a period of time will surely die. Crabs aren’t meant for the moon, let alone outer space. Why would you take a crab to the moon? You take it outside the spaceship for any period of time and it will surely die. I’m sure you’ve seen movies where people go out in space with no spacesuit. Now imagine this happening to the poor crab. It only takes a small period of time for the dark reaches of space to kill him. In order for this crab to live on the moon for any period of time, you’re going to need to put him in a special moon aquarium and lock the lid with a key (き). This crab is crafty, so after you lock it, take the key with you and don’t let it out of your sight for any period of time. This crab knows how to use a key. Imagine this crab floating around in an aquarium half filled with water in little to no gravity. The water is floating all about and the crab is confused as can be. He just wants the key so he can get out of this crazy moon box and back to the real ocean where he belongs.
# | 植 | Plant | しょく ; う | Tree + Fix | If you want to fix a tree you have to plant it. It's pretty obvious that digging up the tree broke it. So fix it by planting it again. That is how plants work. Is your tree broken? Fix it up by planting it somewhere else. Somewhere with the right amount of light and no biting bugs. If you don't plant a tree it goes into shock (しょく). Which, honestly, shouldn't be very shocking to you, since it's a tree. Have you ever seen a tree in shock? Imagine it now. It's shaking and dying and sad. Make sure you properly plant all your trees from now on.
# | 根 | Root | こん ; ね | Tree + Root | A tree root is still just a root! Roots are roots, ね. Tree roots are the perfect roosting place for condors (こん). Unfortunately, living on roots is also why they're always endangered. Condors can be killed pretty easily living on the ground on roots like this. Picture a family of condors nestled at the bottom of a tree in its roots. Then a huge machine comes over and mows them all down as it cuts all the trees off their roots. Darn you humans! Do you have to ruin everything?!
# | 短 | Short | たん ; みじか | Arrow + Beans | If you shoot a tall stalk of beans with an arrow, the bean plant will go from tall to short. When the beans are hit with that arrow, it severs the plant in two, and you are left with a stalk of beans that is much shorter than before. Picture yourself shooting this arrow. Imagine yourself nocking the arrow to the bow, and pulling the string back. That bean plant is not short enough, and you’re going to do something about it. All this shooting of arrows to make the bean plants more short is taking a long time. Since you’re out in the sun, you’re starting to get a tan (たん). After the day is finally over, your tan is really, really dark. Imagine yourself being out in the sun for so long that you get an amazing tan. Your skin feels warm all over from all the sun you were getting throughout the day. Feel the warmth coming off of your tanned skin.
# | 球 | Sphere, Ball | きゅう ; たま | King + Request | The king requests a sphere! He didn't say what kind though, so you're going to have to figure it out and bring him the right kind of sphere. Imagine all the different spheres you know and bring them to the king one by one. He doesn't seem to like any of them... think of more spheres! You can't seem to find the sphere the king requested, so you take a break, sit down, and take out your lunch. "THAT!" the king screams, "THAT IS THE SPHERE I REQUESTED!" You look down and he's pointing to the cut up cucumbers (きゅう) in your salad. Cucumbers aren't really spheres... they're circles at best if you cut them, but you can't tell the king that. Just let him eat your cucumbers and think they're sphere-shaped. Maybe next time use a melon-baller and make your cucumbers into spheres for him.
# | 泉 | Spring, Fountain | せん ; いずみ | White + Water | White water shoots out from a spring in the ground. Due to the force the water shoots from the spring, the water looks white with all the air bubbles. Imagine these geysers and the white water shooting from the springs under the ground. Now imagine yourself standing over one when the water shoots out. You’d get super wet and probably knocked over due to the force of the spring water. Imagine this happening to yourself. The only creature powerful enough to withstand the force of these white water springs is the mythical centaur (せん). His horse body allows him to be stable and withstand the white water shooting up from the spring. Centaurs are pretty impressive creatures. Imagine this centaur standing over the white water. It’s just like a shower for him! Hear him laughing with mirth as the whoosh of the spring water washes him down.
# | 流 | Stream | りゅう, る ; なが | Tsunami + Trash + River | A tsunami lifts all the trash out of the river and it streams out onto the shores. As the tsunami recedes, watch as all of the trash comes streaming out of the river and crowds the bank. Next to the trash stream you suddenly see Ryu (りゅう) from Street Fighter and he looks pissed. He's furious that so many people throw their trash in the river and it causes streams like this. Now Ryu is punching and kicking and tatsumaki senpukyaku-ing all of the trash into burnable and non-burnable piles. But the stream doesn't end. Now he's trying to get his other Street Fighter pals to help him beat it back!
# | 合 | Suit, Fit, Join | ごう, がっ ; あ, あい | Suit | The radical suit and the kanji suit are exactly the same! This kanji can also mean join which makes sense. When something suits you well, like a hat or something, it joins together with you quite well too. Join me, my hat! You suit my head well. It just fits, you know? Just remember that this "suit" means "to suit you" - not the thing you wear, okay! You need someone who will suit you. Someone who can join you on your life journey. So you call Grandpa ごういち. Note: For the ごう reading mnemonics, we use Grandpa ごういち because こういち is used for the こう reading. So just remember that ごう comes from Koichi's grandpa ごういち. Imagine you two standing next to each other, posing for a photograph. You two suit each other well. Grandpa ごういち with his gray beard, and you with your [well, you have to fill in this part by yourself].
# | 陽 | Sunshine, Sunlight | よう ; ひ; はる | Building + Easy | A building has easy access to sunshine. It's big and tall, so the sunlight shines right onto its roof. You're standing on top of the building as the sunshine comes down. Its warm light fills your entire body as it covers the building with ease. Standing in sunshine for this long has worked up your appetite, so you take a yogurt (よう) cup out of your bag and eat it. Feel the sunlight on your face and taste the yogurt on your tongue. What flavor is it? Try to imagine it as vividly as you can so that sunlight always tastes like yogurt from now on.
# | 疲 | Tired | ひ ; つか | Sick + Skin | I have sick in my skin. Just look at it, it doesn't look too good. Whenever I have sickness in my skin, I know that I'm probably tired. Imagine yourself being really, really tired. Then look at your skin. It's all blotchy and sickly looking. Why so tired? Your body is heated (ひ) up from exercising way too much. You should let that heat cool down so your skin starts looking better. Feel all the heat (ひ) emanating from your body. It makes you realize how very, very tired you are.
# | 歯 | Tooth, Teeth | は ; し | Stop + Box + Rice | Stop! That box of rice is actually full of teeth! I know it says "rice" on the cover, but I promise you those are all teeth and if you bite into them you'll break a tooth of your own. Stop what you're doing and look into the rice box. Nope, it's definitely full of teeth. There's a grain or two of rice, but it's like 98% teeth. Why do I have a rice box full of teeth? Ha (は)! Wouldn't you like to know. Ha! I definitely have an answer that isn't weird or creepy. Ha... ha ha... Ha! Wouldn't you like to know why there are teeth in there? Ha. Ha ha. HA HA HA HA!
# | 族 | Tribe, Family | ぞく | Direction + Gun + Arrow | If someone is headed in your direction with a gun, nock an arrow in your bow and gather your tribe behind you because it’s about to get real! This man with a gun is headed your direction and he doesn’t even know what you and your tribe are gonna do to him. If he gets any closer, you’re likely to shoot that arrow right at him. This guy headed your direction with his gun doesn’t look friendly at all. Hear the sound of the bowstring as you nock your arrow and prepare your shot to defend yourself. Then imagine the sound of everyone in your tribe doing the same. When he starts to get closer, you notice that this guy is a bosozoku (ぞく) bike gang member. Bosozoku means “running tribe” and this guy is running right at you. With a gun. So gather your own tribe behind you and prepare to defend yourself against this bosozoku member. You remember what a bosozoku is, right? We wrote about them on Tofugu a while ago. They’re bike gang members and the “zoku” in bosozoku means tribe. Remember that article when you see this kanji.
# | 旅 | Trip, Travel | りょ ; たび | Direction + Gun + Tofu | If your friendly neighborhood tofu takes a gun and points it in your direction, you might want to take a trip. This tofu obviously has something wrong with it. If it’s taking a gun and pointing it in your direction, now’s probably a good time to get away and take that trip you’d been talking about. Imagine this menacing block of tofu threatening you with a gun. Guns are scary so you want to get away. Use images of your trip to make the thoughts of the big bad tofu and his gun fade away. Your plan didn't work and the tofu went on your trip with you. And now it's wearing your hotel robe (りょ)! It looks so comfortable, wrapped up in the robe. That's the best part of going on trips, and he stole it from you. Imagine being stuck on a trip with a block of tofu that took your robe and is wearing it around, still pointing the gun in your face. This vacation has been ruined.
# | 待 | Wait | たい ; ま | Loiter + Temple | People who loiter around the temple are probably just trying to wait. They don't mean to look like they're up to no good, but it's hard to wait without looking suspicious when you're waiting outside a temple. Imagine waiting outside a temple. People are giving you looks. People think you're loitering, not just waiting innocently. As you wait outside the temple, you can't help but adjust your tie (たい). When you wait you get nervous, and when you get nervous you fidget. So now you're messing with your tie a whole bunch. Imagine adjusting your tie as you wait. Oh no, now even more people are staring at you. The tie thing is making you look even more suspicious!
# | 温 | Warm | おん ; あたた | Tsunami + Sun + Plate | After a tsunami, any plate left out in the sun will be sure to get warm. The tsunami knocked this plate out of the kitchen, and now it’s just sitting outside in the sun. The sun heats things, so the plate is getting really warm. Right after the tsunami, this plate was wet, but the sun is warming and drying the plate. Imagine looking at the plate and seeing the beads of water evaporate off it as it warms up. Feel the warm steam on your face as this happens. The plate starts to get so warm that you could fry an onion (おん) on it. Who doesn’t love fried onions? That plate sure is warm enough, so start cookin’ ‘em! Imagine yourself frying onions on this plate warmed by the sun. Smell the onion smell as the onion fumes get into your eyes and your sinuses. It makes your eyes water as you are very sensitive to onions.
# | 着 | Wear, Arrive | ちゃく ; き, つ | Sheep + Eye | There are sheep right before your eyes, because they just love what you wear. It's a little known fact that sheep are fashionistas, and they arrive daily to admire your style. These sheep are so stylish they wear their tail to one side - in the latest fashion (check out the sheep radical - the tail is sweeping stylishly to the left!). Imagine all the chic sheep lining up to check out your style, with their carefully coiffed left-hanging tails! More sheep arrive every day to admire the clothes you're wearing. You use a chalk (ちゃく) board to keep count of how many sheep come by each day. Imagine yourself chalking up a line on a chalk board for each sheep that comes to admire you.
# | 皆 | All, Everyone, Everything, Everybody | みな, みんな ; かい | Compare + White | If you compare white light to the other colors you'll realize... white consists of all the colors in one. It contains all the colors in the spectrum in one color. It is the one color that is everything. Just look at the color white. Compare it to other colors. Now look at white again. Split it up into all the colors, creating a beautiful spectrum. Wow, it's all the colors! You decide white light is the ultimate color. You decide you want to put it on all things to make everything white. "What a great idea," you think. You try to put it on everything and you nearly succeed... except, the miners (みな). They keep getting dirty doing all their mining things. NOOO, your plan is ruined! Imagine everything covered in white. Everything in the world. Then, you see a dark splotch. It's the miners, they're all covered in coal, ruining all your ambitions. Walk up to them and see all the dirt on the perfectly white uniforms you gave them just a few minutes earlier. Feel enraged at them. How could they ruin all this white you made for all the people of the world!?
# | 謝 | Apologize | しゃ ; あやま | Say + Body + Measurement | You thought it would be a good idea to say the body measurements of everyone in your village and now you have to apologize. When you do a bad thing you should apologize. And saying everyone's private body measurements is definitely something you should not have done. So it's apology time. You were told you had to apologize by the village shaman (しゃ). At first you didn't even know why everyone was glaring at you, but the shaman took you aside and explained. And now she's standing behind you with her arms crossed as you apologize to everybody. "What do we say?" the shaman says, poking you in the back. "Ugh, I'm sorry I told everyone how tiny your socks are, I guess." "And?" "Annnddd I'll never do it again."
# | 整 | Arrange, Organize | せい ; ととの | Bundle + Winter + Correct | Putting your wood in bundles for winter is the correct way to arrange it. You want to make sure you organize all of your wood before winter comes, or the loose logs could get blown away in the first winter storm. Picture all of the bundles, neatly arranged and organized, as the first snowflakes begin to fall. Right after you've finished arranging the bundles, you take out your saber (せい) and do one final slice. All of the bundles are now perfectly organized AND cut. You can't just throw an entire bundle of logs onto a fire, you have to saber them into smaller chunks. And it's easier to arrange them first, saber them all in half, and then you have two nicely arranged rows!
# | 橋 | Bridge | はし ; きょう | Tree + Heaven + Mouth + Mustache | A tree from heaven with a mustache above his mouth valiantly crosses a bridge. This holy tree from heaven was sent down to earth to cross this very bridge. It is the tree’s angelic mission. Also the tree has a mouth and a mustache. Picture this majestic tree as it crosses the bridge. Its mustache is very distinguished. Hear its roots and branches swaying, creaking, and cracking in the wind. The tree finishes crossing the bridge and on the other side is a plate of steaming hash (はし) browns! That's why it has a mouth. To eat yummy bridge hash browns. Imagine sitting on the bridge with the tree and eating hash browns with it. It's heavenly!
# | 缶 | Can, Tin Can | かん | Can | The radical can is the same as the kanji can. Usually when we talk about a can with this kanji we mean a tin can, though. Picture a tin can in your mind as clearly as you can. The reading for a can is かん, which seems impossibly easy. If that isn't close enough for you, picture this: Genghis Khan (かん) is drinking out of a tin can. He glug glug glugs, gasps, and wipes his face. He holds out the can, "Khan made cans," and winks. かん is can, it's really easy, come on. Just take this one.
# | 選 | Choose | せん ; えら | Scooter + Oneself + Together | You want to get a scooter, so you have one self (oneself) and another self working together to choose. The two tiny yous sit on each of your shoulders, like angel and devil, and argue about which scooter you should choose. Your angel self says you should choose the safest scooter. The devil self says safety is for suckers, and you should buy one that's loud and dangerous and covered in flames. Suddenly your selfs both gasp and choose a scooter in front of you that looks like a centaur (せん). The scooter is designed like a human on the top, the bars are its arms, and the bottom with the seat and the wheels are all horse. This centaur scooter is what you choose to ride. The angel self says, "I choose this centaur scooter because of its strong arms." The devil self says, "I choose this scooter because it looks like a badass horse monster, wooh!"
# | 器 | Container, Vessel, Tool | き ; うつわ | Big + Products | Big products need to be put in a big container. A small container just won’t do. These products are big and they need a big container to be contained in. Imagine having all these big products. How will you contain them all!? Imagine yourself stuffing all of these big products into their respective containers. Once you get the big products into a container, you then lock it with a key (き). You wouldn’t want these products to bust out of their containers, so it’s best to lock them up with a key. Imagine the size of these big keys you have to use to lock these containers. It’s a really big key. Picture yourself straining to turn the key in the lock.
# | 暗 | Dark | あん ; くら, くれ | Sun + Stand | If you yourself are a sun, and you stand next to another sun, no area around you will be dark. The two suns are very bright and standing right next to each other, so all the area will be lit up and nothing will be dark. Think of how bright the sun is. Now multiply that by two. Suns are especially bright right after you come out of a dark area. Imagine yourself looking at these suns and feeling the pain as your eyes are blinded by the bright light. Since the sun has blinded you, your vision is now very dark. You can’t see anything, but you are hungry so you reach around for some food and eat it. Yuck! It’s anchovies (あん). You don’t even like anchovies, how did they get in your house? Picture yourself eating anchovies. The anchovies taste particularly fishy and salty. Taste the anchovies on your tongue as you eat them in darkness.
# | 疑 | Doubt | ぎ ; うたが | Spoon + Mama + Arrow + Coat Rack | When you get home from school, your mama says to hang your spoons and arrows on the coat rack. That doesn't sound like something your mama would say, and you begin to doubt that she's your mama at all! She usually takes them and washes them in the sink. You doubt you could hang them on the coat rack even if you tried. Your mama is acting weird. You doubt she's really your mama. What are you going to do? Your doubt is growing really strong, so you decide to test your mama by putting her head in a guillotine (ぎ)! Oh come on, don't feel bad, you're preeettty sure this isn't your real mama. Watch the doubt wash over her face as she looks up at you from her position in the guillotine. Finally she mutters, "Well, this is disappointing, and I doubt you hung up your spoons and arrows on the coat rack before trying to murder your ol' mum."
# | 料 | Fee, Material | りょう | Rice + Ladle | You have a rice ladle that's specifically for paying the rice fee. Each scoop of something has an extra fee tacked on, so when you use a material, there's a fee you have to pay in that material as well. Imagine ladling up a nice big scoop of rice and then seeing the little fee ladle next to it. Ugh. The material fee. One day, the fee ladle is suddenly the size of row (りょう) boat oars! What! You're supposed to pay a row boat sized fee now?! That's a lot of material you have to give up every time you want to eat some rice. Maybe you should take this row boat oar ladle and row out into the ocean where no one can tax you.
# | 感 | Feeling | かん | Slide + Drunkard + Creeper + Heart | Down a slide, a drunkard comes and places a creeper into your heart. Your entire body is filled with a feeling. A feeling you don't like. This awful sliding drunkard filled your heart with his creeper vibes (and an actual creeper) and now you're feeling a lot of things. Probably bad things. This feeling wells up in you and bursts forth. You feel mad, you feel like you want revenge, you feel like Genghis Khan (かん) reborn! And you will have your revenge on this drunkard. Genghis Khan's horse and sword materialize out of your feelings and you ride toward the drunkard who made you feel these things.
# | 情 | Feeling, Emotion | じょう ; なさ | Soul + Blue | Your soul is blue. As in, it's sad and not feeling well. This is because your soul changes colors depending on your feelings or what emotions you're expressing. Start with a blue soul. What feeling is that? Now a red soul. What emotion is that? Go through as many colors as you can think of, focusing on the fact that each color represents a different emotion or feeling. Why is your soul feeling blue? Because Joe (じょう), the big local farmhand, was extremely mean to you. Maybe he was just having a bad day, but that still really hurt… and now your soul’s all blue too. Seems you’ll have to walk around with a blue soul for the next few days.
# | 様 | Formal Name Title, Formal Name Ender, Manner | さま ; よう | Tree + Sheep + Water | A sheep in the water by a tree has the formal name title of Sir Wilburt Coddington III. When he’s not in his castle, Sir Wilburt Coddington III enjoys playing in water and by trees. He’s a royal sheep. This can also mean manner, as in "manner" of doing things. Someone who has a formal name title has a different manner of doing things. Picture how Sir Wilburt Coddington III obtained his formal name title. He must have done some pretty amazing things, even for a sheep. Just imagine the feats he must have accomplished. This sheep with the formal name title of Sir Wilburt Coddington III only likes to play outside in the water during the summer (さま). Summer is the best season for this fancy sheep. The other seasons just can’t compare. Imagine playing in the water in the summer. It’s crazy hot outside in the summer, so going in the water feels nice. Imagine the coolness of the refreshing water around your body.
# | 養 | Foster | よう ; やしな | Sheep + Good + Fins | Sheep fins are good for fostering children. The sheep have been genetically combined with fish, so the sheep have fins (and they've lost their tails - which is why the tail part of the sheep radical is missing in this kanji!). These sheep fins are very rich in nutrients and as such are very good for foster children that need to grow up big and strong. Imagine eating a fish fin with sheep wool on it. It tastes fishy like the ocean but the wool tastes like clothes. It’s probably the worst thing ever. Imagine eating something like this and taste its flavor on your tongue. The best way to foster a better relationship with these foster kids would be to give them some yogurt (よう). Maybe they can dip the sheep fins in the yogurt to help mask the strange taste. Yogurt is also very nutritious, so it’s a good supplement to the foster kids’ diet. Remember how bad those sheep fins tasted? Now imagine eating your favorite yogurt flavor instead. This yogurt is delicious.
# | 緑 | Green | みどり ; りょく | Thread + Wolverine + Water | If you see a wolverine in the water playing with a piece of thread, there’s no doubt that it’s green. Wolverines love green thread. Almost as much as they love the water. Picture this wolverine playing with the green thread. It’s like a little kitten with yarn. That wolverine loves that green thread. Picture how cute it is as it plays with the thread and coos in happiness. Midori (みどり) is a green colored melon liqueur with a sweet, fruity taste. This wolverine is too young to drink alcohol like Midori, so he just sticks to drinking water. If you’ve ever had Midori before, imagine that taste. It’s also green, so that’s an easy way to remember this kanji. If you haven’t had it, just picture the taste of melon and imagine that flavor on your tongue.
# | 熱 | Heat, Fever | ねつ ; あつ | Womb + Circle + Boil | Your womb spins in a circle and starts to boil with heat. Uh oh, I think you have a fever. Even if you don't have a womb, just picture one anyway: it's turning around in a circle faster and faster, as the heat bubbles and boils in you. You can feel this heat spread through your entire body as you burn up with a fever. The heat from your fever is making your insides and your head and your entire body spin and boil, until your doctor throws some nets (ねつ) around you. You were flailing around and they couldn't get you to stop, so they had to catch you in a series of nets. These nets aren't making the fever heat go away, but they have made the spinning stop at least.
# | 億 | Hundred Million | おく | Leader + Idea | A cult leader has a great idea to recruit a hundred million new members. Since he’s the guy with all the ideas, he is the leader of the cult. His idea is to give every new member a free puppy. He’ll have a hundred million new recruits in no time. Imagine a hundred million free puppies. That’s a lot. Imagine playing with all of them. You’d be pretty happy. Unless you hate puppies. Then you’d be pretty unhappy, I imagine. The cult leader has his headquarters in Oklahoma (おく). Are there a hundred million people in Oklahoma? No, probably not. But hey, this leader is shooting for the stars. First Oklahoma, then the universe! Picture this cult leader gathering a hundred million people into Oklahoma. It’d be awfully crowded. Imagine yourself being stifled by the bodies of a hundred million other people.
# | 俺 | I, Me | おれ | Leader + Big + Rice Paddy + Umbrella | The leader of a big rice paddy is standing in the middle of said rice paddy with an umbrella. Who is this wacky leader? Why, it is I. It is me. Imagine that this leader is you. Be rough about it, because 俺 is the "rougher" version of "I." You should only use it in casual situations or if you're a badass. Why am I standing in the middle of this rice paddy with an umbrella? I'm digging for ore (おれ). More accurately, I'm standing here with an umbrella so I don't get wet. My minions are doing the ore digging, but I am watching to make sure they don't slack off.
# | 想 | Imagine, Contemplate | そう, そ ; おも | Tree + Eye + Heart | Only a tree with eyes and a heart has the ability to imagine and to contemplate. For a tree to imagine and contemplate things, it needs eyes to see and a heart to feel. Can you picture a tree without eyes and a heart imagining something? Contemplating? Probably not. To imagine or contemplate, a tree definitely needs eyes to observe and a heart to experience feelings. If a tree can imagine, it likely has a soul (そう). Its soul is what makes it possible for the tree to contemplate things, you see? Use your soul to imagine what this tree is imagining with its soul. Is it contemplating the deep mysteries of the universe? Is it imagining where that squirrel has gone off to?
# | 殺 | Kill | さつ, さい ; ころ | Treasure + Tree + Weapon | There's treasure in this tree so you take out your weapon and kill it. You didn't just cut the tree down, you stabbed it and sliced it and killed it to death. After the kill though, you didn't feel so good, and you had to sats (さつ) down. Woah, I mean sat... sats? Uh oh. Something is happening to you. You sats down but your brain is all funny and you can't get up again. You sats down after killing the tree because now the tree is getting its revenge and killing you back. Was there poison in the tree? And where is the treasure that was up there?!
# | 宿 | Lodge | しゅく ; やど | Roof + Leader + Hundred | The roof under which the leader can house one hundred of his people is at the local lodge. Back in the old days a lodge had to be huuuuge so when a leader brought a hundred people through town they'd have a place to stay. The lodge shook (しゅく) as the hundred people came tumbling in through the door. It shook, but it didn't fall over. The roof stayed firmly in place, and everyone got to sleep under it okay. Imagine being someone staying at the lodge as they came in and everything shook around you. This lodge would probably last through an earthquake too!
# | 鏡 | Mirror | かがみ ; きょう | Gold + Stand + See | You can see gold if you stand in front of a mirror. Yes, you are made of gold. You’re so great and valuable, standing in front of that mirror. It’s not hard to see, especially in a mirror – you’re golden. Imagine looking at yourself in the mirror only to see you’re made of gold. It would be pretty shocking. Imagine how surprised you would be. Your name is Amy and you are the CAG (Commander, Air Group) of the Battlestar Galactica. People call you CAG Amy (かがみ). You have so many gold medals on you that you’ve earned the nickname “Golden CAG Amy.” You like to look at yourself in the mirror and admire yourself. Imagine being the CAG of a ship. You are in charge of all the pilots and defending the ship. It’s a lot of responsibility. Can you handle it?
# | 然 | Nature | ぜん, ねん ; しか, さ | Moon + Dog + Boil | Under a misshapen crescent moon, a dog boils as much nature as it can find. Picture a weird-looking, misshapen crescent moon casting its light onto the scene of a dog boiling up everything you'd find in nature. Trees, sticks, mud, little animals. All of that is being boiled by this dog by the light of a weird-looking moon. Destroying nature like this is the dog's way of practicing Zen (ぜん) Buddhism. As it breathes in the fumes from all of the different pieces of nature being boiled down, the dog gets really zen and chill. Picture the dog kneeling in front of the pot of concentrated nature and breathing deeply as it practiced Zen. You kind of wish you could join it, considering how peaceful it looks.
# | 詩 | Poem | し ; うた | Say + Temple | What you say at a temple is a poem. It has to be a poem, because if you say anything else it's just plain disrespectful. All of the monks and priests at this temple have to read and recite poems all day, and if they can do it forever, you can while you're visiting. Picture all of the people at the temple reciting poems together. You join in too, and it's a really powerful moment! As you recite a long poem at the temple you see a sheep (し) in the crowd. It's opening and closing its mouth like it wants to say the poem too. You turn to the person next to you and realize you have to say everything in poem form. Excuse me, I'm not a creep, so hear my plea, is that a sheep?
# | 練 | Practice | れん ; ね | Thread + East | Pointing a thread to the east, you practice your navigation skills. You’ve discovered a method to tell direction using just a thread, so you point it to the east in order to find your way. The method takes practice though, so you’re sure to practice every day. East is the land of the rising sun, so imagine yourself practicing this method, pointing the thread to the east as the sun rises up. Feel the heat of the sun’s rays and see the bright light as the sun shines up over the horizon. Also, you are Ren (れん), from Ren  Stimpy the TV show. Since you’re not in the TV business anymore, you’ve decided to practice your other skills. How mature of you, Ren. If you’ve ever seen the show Ren  Stimpy, imagine what it would be like to be Ren. If not, watch a clip on YouTube and pretend you are Ren when you practice doing things, like studying kanji.
# | 賞 | Prize | しょう | Viking + Mouth + Shellfish | Shoot a shellfish that's in the mouth of a Viking at the fair and you'll win a prize. The game is to shoot the shellfish in the Viking's mouth and knock it over. Imagine looking at a big Viking with a shellfish in its mouth. You want to knock it over. You want this prize. The prize you're working so hard to win is lunch with the Shougun (しょう). This is a pretty huge prize, considering all you're doing is knocking something over. You want this prize. You want to meet the Shougun. Soon you'll both be eating shellfish together!
# | 問 | Problem, Question | もん ; と, とん | Gate + Mouth | If you run into a gate mouth first, you’re going to have a problem. Smashing your mouth into a gate is going to hurt. A lot. The problem you’re now in is one of getting to a hospital and having your mouth sewn back on. The question is, how are you going to get to the hospital? Imagine having your mouth bashed into a gate. It’s going to hurt. Imagine how painful this would be and how problematic it is. Imagine that the only question in your mind is how to get to the hospital as quickly as you possibly can. The reason you ran mouth first into this gate was because you were being chased by a monster (もん). A monster in and of itself is a big enough problem as is, let alone smashing your mouth into a gate. You poor, hapless soul. Monsters are scary. Maybe you’ve had a dream where you were being chased by one. Remember how scary that is when you see this kanji.
# | 館 | Public Building | かん | Eat + Roof + Bear | Eating on this roof is a bear, which is how you know this is a public building. The law says that all bears are allowed to eat on the roofs of public buildings. In Japan at least, I don't know where bears are supposed to eat in wherever you're from. Picture a public building, like a museum or a library, and look at the roof. There's a bear eating up there! And it's smiling and waving to you! All public buildings must serve bear needs thanks to the monumental law passed by Genghis Khan (かん). Genghis Khan knew that bears weren't treated well by humans, so he made sure all public buildings were at least partially bear accessible. The next time you see a public building, think, "Thank you Genghis Khan." Because of him bears are free to go up to the roof and eat whatever they please whenever they please.
# | 士 | Samurai | し ; さむらい | Samurai | The samurai radical and the samurai kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! The most famous samurai in Japanese history was the illustrious sheep (し) samurai. He wasn't JUST a sheep who learned the ways of the sword, he would use the wool from the sheep enemies he killed to create his armor! Picture the sheep samurai. Maybe draw him on a piece of paper. He's a sheep wearing wool armor, and he has ram horns on the hilt of his katana.
# | 課 | Section | か | Say + Fruit | I always say the fruit section at the grocery should be at the front of the store. It’s the perfect place for the fruit section, I say. Think about it. Every grocery store has the fruit section right at the front, wouldn’t you say? To get to the fruit section, you have to go to the store. To get to the store you have to drive a car (か). Driving a car is the fastest way to get to the fruit section at the store. Picture yourself driving a car and salivating over the fruit waiting for you in the fruit section. Imagine your favorite fruit as you put the pedal to the metal in your awesome car.
# | 標 | Signpost | ひょう ; しるし | Tree + Helicopter + Jackhammer | You see a tree with a helicopter and a jackhammer tied to it. You look closer, because this is an odd sight, and realize that there is a sign here too. It's telling you to beware of helicopters and jackhammers in this woods. It's a poorly made signpost! This is not the best signpost you've ever seen, but it's better than nothing at all, you suppose. As you look at this weird signpost you notice a button. You press it because it will supposedly tell you more about these dangerous helicopters and jackhammers. Instead, it just yells out in a loud obnoxious voice: HEYO (ひょう)!! Press it a few more times and hear the sound in your head. Also spell it out in kana as you hear it as a nice little additional visual.
# | 銀 | Silver | ぎん | Gold + Root | At the root of gold, there is silver. Gold is basically just silver leveled up. That's why gold is first place, and silver is second. If you just scratch gold really good, you'll find that at its root, there's silver hidden just underneath. Imagine taking a gold coin and rubbing it with some soap and water. As you rub, you slowly see that it's really silver underneath. Huh! If you want to hunt for some silver for yourself, all you need is a guinea (ぎん) pig. Guinea pigs can smell silver, so get a couple and set them loose in the woods and they'll lead you straight to it. Guinea pigs are to silver as normal pigs are to truffles.
# | 駅 | Station, Train Station | えき | Horse + Shrimp | A horse and a shrimp are sitting next to each other. They are both at the train station, waiting for a train to come and take them home. Imagine the horse and the shrimp sitting next to each other on a small bench. There is nobody else at the train station. It is awkward. The train pulls into the station. They walk up to the train doors, but they don't open. "Perhaps a key (えき) would help?" asks the station master, as he goes over to open the door to the train. Instead of saying "a key" he says "eh key." How strange. Imagine the station master saying it like this with his weird accent. You ask him if he has "a key" and he replies with, "What is a key?" Then you say "eh key." He totally understands you now.
# | 題 | Topic | だい | Sun + Correct + Geoduck | If you use the sun, you can find the correct geoduck. That's the topic of today's lecture. Picture a teacher pointing to a chalkboard with a big pointer, and it says "TOPIC." Our topic is actually mostly about using the sun to see different colored dyes (だい) in the water. You use the dye in the correct sunlight to find the geoducks hiding under the sand. And once we master this topic, we'll move onto actually using dye to find them in the wild.
# | 輪 | Wheel, Ring, Loop, Circle | りん ; わ | Car + Hat + Ground + Bookshelf | For your car you use a hat, some ground and a bookshelf to build a new wheel. I mean, it's generally ring and loop shaped, it just needs to be a circle, so it should work, right? Imagine this wheel you made out of a hat, some ground (presumably to keep it all together), and a bookshelf. You install it on your car and hope for the best. This is why you should buy wheels from professional wheel makers. Your wheel is... generally ring (りん) shaped, so that's good. A ring-shaped wheel is better than nothing. Hopefully it will get you where you need to go.
# | 能 | Ability | のう | Private + Moon + Spoon | You keep some private spoons on the moon and they give you a special ability. It's the ability to predict the future! The moon spoons reflect the knowledge of time and space into your brain. Now that's a cool ability! I wish I had this kind of ability... maybe I'll go up to the moon and try to steal your spoons. This ability to predict the future makes you famous and now everyone knows your name: Nostradamus (のう)! And now that people know about your name and special ability, everyone will love you! Oh, you thought I was talking about that old Nostradamus, who also had the ability to predict things? Nah, you're way cooler than him.
# | 芸 | Art, Performance | げい | Flowers + Cloud | You put flowers on a cloud and call it art. Not everyone agrees that your flower cloud art is actually art, but you know it is. Imagine piling up flowers on top of clouds to make your own unique art. It’s a fiddly business, because they keep falling through the clouds, but you get there in the end. Now step back and marvel at your work of flower cloud art. Your beautiful art is going to be displayed at a gay (げい) club. Imagine the pride you feel about having your art on display. Picture the gay club with your art displayed behind the bar. Fame and fortune are just around the corner, now.
# | 雰 | Atmosphere | ふん | Rain + Part | Part rain, part other stuff. I imagine this is what people thought the atmosphere was made out of thousands of years ago. Imagine looking up into the sky, trying to figure out what the atmosphere up there is made out of. Your only lead: It's raining, a lot. So, the atmosphere must be partly made of rain, and it's just falling down. The reading for this kanji is actually the same as 分s. One trick about complicated kanji is they often take the reading of one of the pieces that they're made from. In this case it's 分, which is cool. Also, studying the atmosphere is a ton of fun (ふん), if you're into that sort of thing.
# | 骨 | Bone | こつ ; ほね | Mustache + Forehead + Moon | If you have a mustache and you hit your forehead on the moon, you’re probably going to break a bone. Ok, so it doesn’t matter so much if you have a mustache, but if you’re travelling fast enough to make it to the moon, you’re definitely breaking a bone if you run into it. Imagine the force and mass of the moon hitting you right in the boney part of your forehead. Whomp! It sure would hurt. Outer space is cold, and if you're traveling to the moon, you're going to need a lot of coats (こつ). All of these coats will keep you warm, even if you do end up breaking your forehead bone. Again, feel your bones crack as you smash into the moon. At least you're warm though. Feel the cozy coats you're wearing and snuggle up in their warmth.
# | 束 | Bundle | そく ; たば | Bundle | The bundle radical and the bundle kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! You should always bundle your socks (そく). If you don't, there is a 100% chance you'll lose all of the left ones. Imagine doing laundry and making sure to bundle your socks together so none of them will be lost.
# | 周 | Circumference | しゅう ; まわ | Circumference | The circumference radical and the circumference kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! Practice how to measure the circumference of an item by using your shoe (しゅう). Your shoe is kind of round, and it's free. I mean it's right there on your foot. Try to find the circumference of your shoe and then email us with the measurement. I promise you'll never forget this kanji if you actually do it.
# | 閉 | Closed, Close, Closure | へい ; し, と | Gate + Talent | The gate to talent is now closed. In fact, the gate to talent is always closed. It's not like anyone can just waltz in and get themselves some talent. You have to work for it! You have to work hard to get through that closed gate to talent! After your hard work, hear the gate close behind you with a creak. You're on the inside now, you're one of the talented ones. And your talents have changed you, made you different from the others — much like the talent radical in this kanji is a little different from its usual shape! Outside the talent gate that's always closed, hay (へい) is piled up to make beds for the people who are still trying to get in. Who knows how long they'll be there outside the closed gate, sleeping in the hay, but they're all working hard to become talented. Picture a bunch of people outside the closed gates, sleeping in piles of hay. You were there too once. You know how itchy that hay is, and how cold it can be at night. But it was all worth it.
# | 協 | Cooperation | きょう | Cross + Power | Next to the cross we combine our power power power so that we have cooperation. And with our powers combined, we become stronger than we ever could have been apart, lifting the cross above our heads! The power of cooperation is a *ahem* powerful thing. Nowhere is the power of cooperation more apparent than in きょうと. When invaders are attacking, when the townspeople want to rebel, when there is a kitty up a tree, the people combine their power from all reaches of Japan and cross into きょうと to put a stop to the madness through cooperation. Imagine being a citizen of きょうと. Watch as the powers from your neighboring prefectures march across the border to come cooperate together to stop the bandits that raided your farm. You admire their cooperation. You admire きょうと!
# | 例 | Example | れい ; たと | Leader + Yakuza + Knife | The leader of the yakuza shows you his knife. He says, "This is an example of a knife." The leader of the yakuza is just showing you an example of a knife. Maybe to scare you? Why would an example of what a knife is scare you, though? Coming from the leader of the yakuza, this is a weird tactic. "This is an example," the leader of the yakuza tells you. "Next time, I'll show you an example of a ray (れい) gun." Why is the leader of the yakuza showing you examples of weapons, not to mention weapons that aren't real, like ray guns?
# | 折 | Fold, Bend, Break | せつ ; お, おり | Fingers + Axe | If your fingers are strong enough, you can take an axe and fold it in half. But be careful not to bend it too far, or you might just break it! Imagine holding an axe between your fingers and folding it like a pretzel. Or some silly putty. Or a really soft axe. Unfortunately, as you fold these axes in half you realize they come in sets (せつ), so there are twice the axes you thought there would be. To compensate, you start folding them in sets too. How many axes can you bend at once? A set of two? What about a set of four? Or a set of forty-two?
# | 基 | Foundation | き ; もと | Crab + Dirt | Crabs in the dirt make a great foundation for a seaside hut. It's right on the seashore, where all the crabs dig their holes in the dirt. But as they get old and die, their bodies form a strong base. Perfect for the foundation of a building like this! Do you live on the beach? Maybe the foundation of your house was made from crabs in dirt too. Why don't you go outside and check? Remember, a good foundation is the key (き) to a good house. No, literally. You have to use a piece of the foundation to make the key to your house. Keys to houses are always made out of a piece of the foundation it was built upon. How else would they be unique from one another?
# | 性 | Gender, Nature, Sex | せい, しょう | Soul + Life | Each life has a soul, and that soul determines what gender you are. It's not so much about your body parts, it's more about what's inside that matters. Picture your own soul and your own life. Listen to what your soul says about your gender and live your life to the fullest! Once you've decided what your gender is, the Shougun (しょう) comes to your house, lays his saber (せい) on your shoulders, and then it's official! It's in all the newspapers, there's a parade, and everyone is patting you on the back because you did it! The next time you get one of those surveys where you have to choose your gender just think back to that time your life when the Shougun came and officiated your gender with his saber. Ahh, what lovely memories.
# | 妥 | Gentle | だ | Cleat + Woman | A woman with cleats is walking on someone's back, but she doesn't want to hurt him. She has to be very gentle. Cleats are sharp and pointy, and not designed for back walking, so she's being extra, special gentle right now. Picture a woman walking gently over someone's back. She's hardly moving. Actually, the person she's being gentle with is her dad (だ). No one would ever want to hurt their dad, especially if he's asked you to walk gently on his back as a way of giving him a massage. Poor, old dad. His back hurts so his daughter has to walk on his back with cleats to make it feel better. But if she isn't gentle enough, she'll just make it worse.
# | 卒 | Graduate | そつ | Lid + Person + Cross | A person puts a lid on their cross after they graduate. It’s a symbolic gesture, putting the lid over the cross, but it’s just what you do when you graduate around these parts. Imagine a wooden cross and picture yourself putting a lid over it. Visualize this motion in your mind and imagine having to do something like this at your graduation. Oops, looks like you forgot your lid. Without the lid, you’ll be held back. So two (そつ) more years now until you can graduate. So two more years, eh? Just for forgetting a lid? Nonsense! Imagine being held back two more years from graduation. You’d lose all your motivation. Imagine how lousy this would be.
# | 固 | Hard | こ ; かた | Mouth + Old | A mouth that is old is going to be hard. Go ahead and touch that old man's mouth. It's super hard feeling when you touch it. You touch the old man's hard mouth and it crumbles away, revealing the face of a 子 (こ) inside. "You pressed the hard skin holding me captive! Thank you!" the 子 says, as they break free from their hard mouth prison.
# | 望 | Hope | ぼう ; のぞ | Death + Moon + King | Causing death at every turn, the moon king sits inside his moon, getting ready to cause death on anything in his sights. Sounds a lot like the Death Star from a certain movie. One of which is "Star Wars: A New Hope." Now picture the death moon king as the Emperor, sitting in his Death Star. There is no hope, except for that little opening you can shoot through to destroy the whole thing. That's hope, I guess! The name A New Hope, as we all know, comes from the ending where the moon king's son sends a bowling (ぼう) ball into that little opening and knocks it out of the sky. In the end, the real hope was bowling all along. I hope you've learned a valuable lesson from this space movie.
# | 材 | Lumber, Material, Timber | ざい | Tree + Talent | A tree with talent can become lumber. Not all trees can do this. Only the talented ones are able to turn themselves into lumber or material, to be used for a million different things. Picture a tree standing in the forest. It's thinking so hard you can see the math equations flying around in its branches, until finally a cartoon light bulb appears above its head. This talented tree has figured out how to become lumber! Trees can be turned into all kinds of things, but this one wants to use its lumber and material to build a xylophone (ざい). It's the most difficult instrument to create, so it suits the talent level of this tree! Watch as the tree becomes lumber and that lumber is used to craft a ginormous xylophone. Each key is its own plank of lumber!
# | 参 | Participate | さん, しん ; まい | Private + Big + Hair | You can't keep big hair private, so you end up having to participate in everything. Can you imagine people asking for volunteers and you trying to look inconspicuous with your big hair sticking up and out and all over? Of course they're going to notice you and make you participate. When you're thinking about your next hair style, if you don't like participating in things, you should think about something you can actually keep more private. You know who has big hair and loves to participate in everything? Santa-san (さん)! Well, his hair is more big on the bottom (it's a beard) than whatever you have on your head, but hair is hair. And he participates in present giving in every house in the world! See? Big hair = participation! Would you want to participate in Christmas if it meant looking like Santa and visiting every single house on earth?
# | 完 | Perfect | かん | Roof + Origin | The roof that became the origin of all roofs was perfect. It was tall and wide so it could fit and protect everyone. And the dimensions were perfect too. Picture this absolutely perfect roof. They really got it right on their first try. This perfect roof was commissioned by Genghis Khan (かん). We got all of the carpenters and home makers and construction workers he'd conquered together and tasked them with making the first roof, but only if they made it absolutely perfect. Genghis Khan was a perfectionist, and by conquering and bringing all of these different people together, he was able to create something perfect by all standards.
# | 松 | Pine, Pine Tree | まつ ; しょう | Tree + Public | When climbing a tree in public, it’s best to choose a pine. Pine trees offer the most coverage, so you’ll be able to hide, even out in public. Imagine climbing up a pine tree. The pine needles are prickly, so your hands get pricked as you climb. Smell the pine tree smell and feel the pine sap on your hands. In case you fall, someone has laid mats (まつ) out around the base of the pine tree. That way, you’ll land on the mats should something unfortunate happen. Picture yourself falling out of this pine tree and onto the mats. The mats are nice and soft so it’s nice. Hear the whoosh of air as you collapse onto the mats.
# | 約 | Promise | やく | Thread + Pool | You tie a thread on your finger before jumping in the pool to remind yourself of the promise you made to your mother. The thread represents the promise you made to mow the lawn after you finished swimming in the pool. The promise reminding thread on your finger was tied too tight. You can feel the thread starting to cut off your circulation as your finger starts to turn purple and go numb. It’s really uncomfortable. After you get out of the pool, you keep the promise you made to your mother. So you get on your yak (やく) powered mower and trim the grass. Yes, your mower is pulled by a yak. It’s very efficient. Imagine yourself sitting on a riding mower as you’re pulled around the yard by a yak. The yak is having a hard time pulling you so it's making lots of yak noises. Hear them in your mind.
# | 残 | Remainder | ざん ; のこ | Yakuza + Bar | Yakuza bars barely exist. The remainder of them aren't even in Japan. Imagine the yakuza bars all being shut down. There's only one place where they can remain. The remainder of the yakuza bars aren't in Japan. Strangely, they are all in Zanzibar (ざん). Imagine a yakuza bar in Zanzibar. What a strange place to hold out.
# | 願 | Request | がん ; ねが, ねがい | Original + Geoduck | The original geoduck had a request. He wants there to be more geoducks in the world! Remember, this is the OG = original geoduck. There are no other geoducks yet. The only person that would even hear the geoduck's request was Gandhi (がん). Gandhi closed his eyes, sat down, and spread the geoduck's request to the rest of the world. People listened when Gandhi said, "My friends. We must stop trying to eat the geoduck, and instead allow it to breed. Join me in this fast!" And that's why we have so many geoducks on the earth today. Thanks Gandhi.
# | 季 | Seasons | き | Grain + Child | A grain's child will grow with the seasons. In spring the grain is born, it grows in summer, is harvested in fall, and dies in winter. Watch the grain children live their entire lives throughout the seasons. Though there are 72 seasons in Japan, so the life of a grain is actually really long there. All of the seasons have their own special key (き). As they change, that season's key appears and unlocks the next step in the grain's life. Picture these seasonal keys floating through the sky, unlocking the weather changes, the growth of new grains, and the aging of us all.
# | 格 | Status | かく | Tree + Kiss | If you kiss a tree, your status will change to, “In a relationship with a tree.” You know Facebook relationship statuses. If you kiss a tree, your status will be that you’re in a relationship with said tree. Imagine how silly that would be. Regardless of the status, you need to let the tree know how you feel. Being a cock (かく), y'know, a male chicken, you cock-a-doodle-do your true feelings to the tree. You actually just want to be friends. Picture yourself as a cock, cock-a-doodle-doing about how you really feel about the tree. What would you say to let the tree down easy?
# | 苺 | Strawberry | いちご | Flowers + Sun + Drop | If flowers are in the sun and they receive one drop and then another drop of water, they turn into a strawberry. Imagine a sunny field full of flowers, which all combine into one enormous strawberry when two drops of water fall onto them. Two drops isn't much, so they have to work together to make the giant strawberry. Believe it or not, a giant strawberry is the only cure for an itchy Godzilla (いちご). Imagine Godzilla, covered in an itchy rash, squishing the giant strawberry and rubbing it all over his body to calm his itchy skin.
# | 頑 | Stubborn | がん ; かたく | Origin + Geoduck | The origin of the geoduck is a pretty stubborn one. The geoduck race is so stubborn that it refused to evolve into an animal that made any sense. Hence, the origin of the geoduck is one of stubbornness. You know what a geoduck looks like, right? Does that look like a creature that was looking to change and evolve and be awesome? No, geoducks are weird and stubborn. Imagine how stubborn you’d have to be to not want to evolve into a more attractive animal. You know who else was stubborn? Gandhi (がん). Gandhi believed in non-violent resistance and he was pretty stubborn about it. Gandhi’s stubbornness, however, was pretty effective. Everyone knows Gandhi. Remember Gandhi and his famous stubborn attitude whenever you see this kanji.
# | 囲 | Surround | い ; かこ | Mouth + Well | The mouth of a well will surround you if you fall into it. The mouth of a well is the opening of the well, and if you fall into that well, the mouth as well as the rest of the well will surround you. Picture yourself surrounded by this well on all sides. You look up and you can barely see the mouth of the well where you fell in and now you are trapped. Imagine how scared you are. Imagine trying to claw your way up the sides of the well but all you do is break your nails on the walls. The well walls surround you as you look up to the mouth once again. This time you see an eagle (い) flying overhead. You call out to the eagle to save you and the eagle comes swooping down into the well and flies you out to safety. What a nice eagle! This eagle is basically a superhero. Imagine an eagle dressed in a superman outfit. He’s your savior. Imagine your gratitude towards this eagle superhero.
# | 的 | Target, -al | てき ; まと | White + Pool | A white guy jumps into a pool with a target painted on the bottom. He’s aiming for the bullseye. Picture this pasty white dude jumping into the target bottomed pool. The sun glints off of his unnaturally white skin and stings your eyes. This white dude is a huge techie (てき) so he has electronic enhancements that make sure he hits the target. Being a techie has its advantages. He hits the water right on target and the water splashes onto you. Since he was a techie, he was able to perform the perfect dive. And now you’re all wet.
# | 念 | Thought | ねん | Now + Heart | If you live in the now, there’s a good chance your heart controls your thought process. You don’t have time to think with your brain, you need an answer now so you use your heart to make decisions and thought process. Think about the last time you thought it was right to make a decision with your heart. What was it? Use these emotions to remember this kanji. You're living in the now and letting your heart control all your thoughts. Why are you following your heart? You found you only have one 年 (ねん) to live, so you have to live for the now. Think of all the things you'd do with your life if you only had one 年 left. Maybe you should go do some of them anyways, right now?
# | 井 | Well | い ; しょう, せい | Well | The well radical and the well kanji are the same. Make sure you remember that this is a well of water not a "well, actually." Each time you go to the town well, there's a giant eagle (い) hiding inside, just waiting for you to show up. You're absolutely terrified of this giant eagle hiding in the well. You're not even sure what its goal is, maybe it's just out to scare you... Either way, imagine yourself being absolutely terrified of this eagle every time you have to go fetch water from the well.
# | 希 | Wish | き ; まれ | Treasure + Narwhal + Towel | There is a treasure on top of a narwhal who wears a towel that will grant your greatest wish. Picture this narwhal: above its long horn there is a huge, shiny treasure floating. It pulls the towel tight around itself, "Brururu you found me I see!" it whistles at you. In order to open the treasure and get your wish, you need the key (き). The narwhal knows where it's hidden, so you'll have to convince it to tell you where the key is. If you find the key, what will you wish for? Think about your single, greatest wish. Close your eyes and picture it as clearly as you can and you'll find the key.
# | 狼 | Wolf | おおかみ ; ろう | Animal + Good | One animal that is particularly  good is the wolf. Wolves have a bad reputation, but actually they're very, very good animals. When wolves are reintroduced to an ecosystem, good things happen. Overpopulation in deer and other animals decline, plants grow and create more habitats, and the balance of wildlife improves. It all starts with wolves, who are good dogs. Also, wolves take care of wild, abandoned kids. Only wolves do that, because they're good. Just ask Mowgli! A wolf might be good, but if you run into one, all you can do is scream Oh 神!” (おおかみ). "Oh 神," as in, "Oh god," because you're about to be eaten by a good wolf. You're part of the ecosystem now.
# | 紀 | Account, Narrative | き | Thread + Oneself | The thread you weave together to tell others about oneself is the account of your life. It's your very own narrative, tying everything you've been through together. Picture this account of your life, the thread of the narrative linking all of the different important points in your life together. You take this account and lock it with a special key (き). You only give this key to people you really trust, so they can read the account of your life and truly understand you. Picture the people in your life that you'd give this special key to. They'd get to read the account of your life, so make sure they're trustworthy before you hand that key over.
# | 軍 | Army | ぐん | Forehead + Car | You run into someone's forehead with your car. The big forehead you hit is Kim Jong Un's. You know that now you're going to have the whole North Korean army coming after you. Imagine yourself running away from the North Korean army. You have to get to the border, the entire army is coming after you for hitting their dear leader! The army is after you. Each army soldier has a gun (ぐん) and they want to use these guns of theirs to shoot you dead! You killed their leader with a car and now they’re gonna get you back with a gun! Picture yourself running away from them as they shout and shoot at you. Hear the bullets wizzing past your head as you run away as fast as you can.
# | 秋 | Autumn, Fall | あき ; しゅう | Grain + Fire | Grains look like they're on fire in autumn. They all turn red and orange and brown, the colors of fire. It's also fun to set grains on fire in Autumn, since it's getting colder. Picture all the grains in autumn. Picture all of the colors. The colors of fire. As the grains burn, and the season changes to autumn, imagine them yelling out in pain: "ACK (あき)!" Ah yes, the sound of the seasons changing to autumn. Ack! Ack! Ack!
# | 信 | Believe, Trust | しん | Leader + Say | You say to your leader, “Believe and trust in me, I’m responsible.” The leader doesn’t think you can handle your duties, so this is why you said this to him. You want him to believe and trust you. You can handle this task. Imagine yourself saying this to your leader. Say it out loud as you imagine saying it to a leader of some sort. To show you are serious as you say, “Believe and trust in me, I’m responsible,” you kneel down on each shin (しん). You have shin splints, so it hurts a bit, but you do it anyway to show how serious you are. Picture yourself pleading with your leader to trust and believe in you. Imagine the hurt of your shins with the shin splints as you kneel. It hurts a lot, but it proves how serious you are.
# | 岩 | Boulder | いわ ; がん | Mountain + Stone | A mountain stone is probably going to be a really big stone. We're talking about a boulder here. This kanji makes a lot of sense. Just follow the logic. "Boulder!!!" yells a voice from behind you. "Eek, wha...?" (いわ) you reply. You look up to see a boulder falling off the cliff above you. "Eeeeeek! Whaaaat!?," you shout again, running and screaming this time. Imagine yourself screaming "Eeeeeek! Whaaaat!?" and running away from that boulder as fast as you can.
# | 仏 | Buddha | ぶつ ; ほとけ | Leader + Private | Your private leader is Buddha. You don't feel the need to tell everyone. But when you're alone you give your time to Buddha and let him lead your life. Imagine being in the privacy of your own home, your own room, and saying to yourself, "Yes Buddha, you're my leader." Or, if that irks you, don't. Your religion is your own private right, yo. Your private Buddha is a little different than other people's idea of him. Your Buddha is wearing boots (ぶつ). They're big and rubber, and they look fabulous on him. Picture Buddha wearing a giant pair of rubber boots. Yes, now this is fashion.
# | 猫 | Cat | ねこ | Animal + Flowers + Rice Paddy | If you see an animal among the flowers in a rice paddy, chances are it’s a cat. Cats love rice paddy flowers, almost as much as they love catnip. Picture this cat meowing and purring as it rubs up against all the flowers in the rice paddy field. Aww, it’s so cute! Wait a minute… This cat is pretty odd looking. You take a closer look, seeing it is missing its neck (ねこ). You go to pet it, but it's super sensitive about that area of its head, which is basically a face connected to a body... Try not to imagine this too hard. It is disturbing.
# | 変 | Change, Strange | へん ; か | Red + Winter | If the snow in winter was red instead of white, that’d be a strange change wouldn’t you say? White snow is normal, red would just be strange. Can you imagine what it would be like if the winter snow changed to the color of red? This strange change radical is a modified version of the red radical. Use that to remember it. It’s a strange change from the normal red radical. You know what else is a strange thing to change? The color of a hen (へん). Hens are already red, so we’d change them to another color, like purple. That would be a pretty strange color for a hen, right? Imagine if hens were purple, or even other strange colors. It would be an unexpected change. Imagine this army of rainbow colored hens strutting around and clucking up a storm.
# | 晴 | Clear Up | は ; せい | Sun + Blue | The sun is out, the sky is blue, things have begun to clear up! Look into the blue sky and imagine the clouds parting as the weather clears up and you can see the sun. Gorgeous! The beauty is so great you have to squint. Now that it's starting to clear up you can't help but laugh. "Ha (は)! Ha ha ha!" you laugh up into the sky. The sun feels great on your face, making you feel lively! And that blue sky ain't too shabby either. Say the "ha ha ha" part out loud while you imagine the weather clearing up. It'll help you to remember the reading of this kanji.
# | 勇 | Courage, Bravery | ゆう ; いさ | Courage | The radical for courage and the kanji for courage are exactly the same. That means if you know your radicals well, you know the meaning of this kanji too! A man needs courage to stand up to all the youths (ゆう) of the world. They are so numerous and difficult to understand, but the man can face them with courage thanks to his mama. Imagine a courageous man standing against the youths. They use weird slang and try to tell him about avocado toast, but the man keeps his courage.
# | 泣 | Cry | な ; きゅう | Tsunami + Stand | If you stand in front of a tsunami, you’re going to cry. That tsunami is going to hit you hard, and rip you right off the ground on which you stand. Who wouldn't cry? Imagine getting hit with the full force of a tsunami. It slams into you and crushes every bone in your body. It hurts so much you cry. Do you know the only way to stop yourself crying after a tsunami? That's right, nachos (な)! Nachos are the only proven way to cheer people up after being hit by a tsunami. Imagine stuffing yourself with nachos. The tears stop. You're feeling bruised and wet, but much better.
# | 司 | Director | し ; つかさど | Cape + Creeper | A creeper inside of a cape, who are they? They’re the director of a movie. They try to look all mysterious, but you know it’s just so people go see their movies and think they’re cool. Really they’re just a creep deep down. Picture the creepiest director you know. Wearing a cloak and cackling as he directs your favorite actors. The director is currently directing a movie about sheep (し). He keeps petting them and talking to them like they're humans. The creep director gets really into whatever his current project is. Picture him wearing a sheep costume with the cape over it, petting and whispering to his sheep cast.
# | 区 | District, Ward | く | Cage + Treasure | This cage with treasure in it is actually a map of the district the treasure is in. Picture a big pirate map, and on it are a bunch of these markers for the districts where you can find the treasures you've been searching for. There is one district you're interested in, and that's the cookie (く) district. The treasure of the cookie district is cookies, which you want. And to be fair, even if you weren't a pirate, you'd probably want those cookies.
# | 英 | England, English | えい | Flowers + Center | There are many flowers in the center of England. It may seem rainy and gray at first, but if you walk right to the center you'll see all the flowers that grow there in the center of the country. This kanji also means English, which is pretty similar to England. Just imagine all the people of England walking to the center, where the flowers are, and speaking English to them to help them grow. Picture yourself in the center of England, speaking English to all of the beautiful flowers. You keep walking to the very central center of England and see a giant acorn (えい) planted in the middle of the ground. This acorn is the source of all the flowers and life in England. Imagine walking around the giant English acorn. Touch its smooth surface with your hand.
# | 丈 | Height, Ten Feet | じょう ; たけ | Height | The height radical and the height kanji are the same! That said, there's a secondary meaning to this kanji of ten feet. So, when you think of height, think of that height as being ten feet tall. If you paid attention in radicals school, you'll be able to learn this kanji meaning easily. When you think of height, think of our huge farmhand friend, Joe (じょう). He's a big guy, and he has a lot of height to him. In fact, he's ten feet tall. Joe really is a big guy. Look up at him, and try to measure him, although ten feet might be a little high for you to reach.
# | 夫 | Husband | ふう, ふ ; おっと | Husband | The husband radical and the husband kanji are the same. How useful, unlike some husbands, I'd imagine.  What do all husbands love? Food (ふう)! Can you hear your future husband? He’s saying, "Fooooood! FOOOOOD!” like some kind of food craving zombie. Husbands love eating food. Who doesn’t though, really?
# | 福 | Luck, Fortune | ふく | Spirit + Scarecrow | When a spirit decides to live in your scarecrow, you'll be granted good luck and good fortune. Crows won't hang out in your farm. Everything you grow will become large and delicious. But not everyone is so lucky that a spirit will decide to live in their scarecrow. So maybe the luck was in you all along! Nope, the luck is definitely coming from the spirit in your scarecrow. You aren't lucky on your own. You want to check the scarecrow to make sure your recent luck is coming from it, so you kick it. "F*** (ふく) you!" it yells. Oh yeah, there's a spirit in there. If you get a luck spirit to say f*** you, you might accidentally convince it to move somewhere else. If it does, you lose your luck. So be careful.
# | 飯 | Meal, Food | はん ; めし | Eat + Anti | If you're anti-eat your meal will just sit in front of you, uneaten. Food is meant to be eaten! Stop trying to fast and take a bite. Look down at the huge meal in front of you. I guess there are plenty of reasons to be anti-eat right now, but you'll have to eat your food eventually. As you stare at the meal, Han (はん) Solo appears before you and takes a bite! This is what happens if you don't eat your food, someone else will eat it. Picture Han Solo slowly eating your whole meal! He's making constant eye contact with you, reaching down and shoving the entire meal into his mouth.
# | 計 | Measure, Measurement | けい ; はか | Say + Cross | If you want to say how big a cross is, you have to measure it. You can't say the size of something without measuring it first. Imagine trying to use your hands to show the size of this cross, but the other person shakes their head and says, "Use your words!" Ugh, okay, you'll have to measure it then. You need to measure this cross but all you have is a cake (けい). Good enough! I'm sure all cakes are exactly the same size, so they're a reliable unit of measure. "This cross measures two cakes wide and three cakes long," you say.
# | 法 | Method, Law | ほう | Tsunami + Past | Tsunamis in the past changed the methods and laws of today. Tsunamis used to come crashing into towns, just leveling them completely. Today we have new methods of building and protecting ourselves, and laws to keep them in place, so the past doesn't repeat itself. These methods and laws affected your own home (ほう) the most. Your home has strong walls and ceilings. You aren't allowed to leave the doors unlocked and open. These methods and laws are because of those past tsunamis and the damage they used to cause. Your home is safe thanks to them!
# | 晩 | Night, Evening | ばん | Sun + Excuse | The sun has an excuse for disappearing at night. The sun gets really tired, same as anyone else – so when night rolls around the sun excuses itself and goes to sleep. It’s a valid excuse. Imagine you’re the sun, working all day. Of course you get tired. This is a good excuse to go to bed at night and get some rest. Feel how sore and hot and sweaty and exhausted you are after a hard day’s work of being the sun. Unfortunately, you also have a history of overworking yourself, so you've been outright banned (ばん) from showing up at night. Stop working so much! Humans need some rest too, so it can't always be bright. Maybe you should try some therapy. We all just want to see you get better, sun. Anyway, you're banned for now. Cya.
# | 昼 | Noon | ひる ; ちゅう | Shrimp + Sun + Ground | The sun rises from the ground, and on top of it is a giant shrimp. It doesn't do anything except for every day right at noon, when it tells you the time. "Hey guyz, it's noon, mmk?" Really try to imagine this giant shrimp on the sun as a normal thing that happens, without fail, every day. The shrimp also tells the time right at noon, every day (so important you stress remembering that it's noon, not some other time). Maybe you could have him sing a "noon song" in your imagination as well. At noon, the shrimp also puts on its high heels (ひる) to get ready for the evening, where it wants to make sure it looks good for the other shrimp he/she meets later on. Right after the shrimp's announcement, imagine it struggling to put on heels, while sitting on the sun. This shrimp is almost bigger than the sun, actually, so all its struggles with its heels are easy to see.
# | 払 | Pay | はら ; ふつ | Fingers + Private | Your fingers are private, no one can see them unless they pay! And you decide if what they pay is enough to get a peek. Imagine people coming from miles around to pay for a look at your private fingers. If someone tries to look without paying, that's harassment (はら)! Nobody gets to see something of yours without proper payment, but more importantly, your consent! If somebody looks at your fingers without paying, without your consent, file a harassment claim on their butt! That is NOT okay!
# | 毒 | Poison | どく | Life + Window | To throw life out the window, use poison. To keep life safely inside the window, put that poison down. If anything's worse than poison it's doing Sudoku (どく) puzzles. Have you done Sudoku before? Imagine yourself completing these puzzles and concentrating really hard. They’re fun, but also challenging.
# | 昨 | Previous, Yesterday | さく | Sun + Key | With the right key you can unlock the sun to yesterday, or a previous day. The sun is in charge of the day changes, so if you use a key to unlock it, you can control the flow of time and return to yesterday, or a previous day in the past. Behold the power of the sun. Imagine having the power to control time like this. Picture yourself unlocking the sun to go back in time. Feel the heat of the sun and the bright light in your eyes as you unlock the door to the past. Time traveling to a previous time, like yesterday, can be rough on the body. As such, you wear a small sack (さく) to hold your valuables while you’re ripped through the sands of time. The sack keeps your important stuff from getting lost. The sack holds your key to the sun as well. Imagine wearing this sack as you’re sucked through the vortex of time and space. Feel yourself spinning around as you hurtle back into yesterday.
# | 帰 | Return, Return Home | かえ ; き | Knife + Wolverine + Forehead + Towel | A knife got stuck in Wolverine's forehead, and he has a towel wrapped around it to stop the bleeding, but he really needs to return home. Everything is fun and games until someone gets hurt. And in this case, very hurt. If something like this happens, it's always best to return home. Wolverine wants to return home, but he can't drive himself because there's a knife in his forehead and lots of blood, so he asks his friend the car elephant (かえ) to take him. Car elephant is just an elephant mutant that has a car on his back. Watch as Wolverine climbs up onto car elephant and returns home. Well, this party was a failure.
# | 式 | Ritual, Ceremony, Equation | しき | Ceremony + Construction | To construct a whole ceremony, you can’t just make it up on the spot. That is not a ceremony. A ceremony has a past. A ceremony is done a certain way because that’s the way it’s always been done. In short, to build a ceremony, you have to create a ritual first. Then, the ritual can be constructed into a bigger, more lavish ceremony. This kanji also means equation for some reason. Just think of a ceremony that involves doing math and coming up with equations. How strange would that be? Pretend you're at this ceremony. Ritual and ceremony kind of mean the same thing. Don't worry too much if you mix them up a little - each will help you to remember the other. There's a reason this kanji is made up of the ceremony radical already! So, you're at a ritual, but not just any old ritual. This is a full-blown ceremony and it's incredibly chic (しき). Imagine just how chic it is. Give it a shot – I'll let you come up with the chicness this time (it's good practice). It's good to practice making your own mnemonics up every once in a while. It'll help you to add on to the mnemonics already here and make better ones more personal to yourself!
# | 列 | Row | れつ | Yakuza + Knife | Take your yakuza knife and put it in a row with the others. You have a yakuza knife. There are a bunch there, all in a row, so you follow suit by putting yours in the row too. Should we put them in a row? Let's (れつ) put them in a row! Imagine a bunch of yakuza being enthusiastic about putting their knives in a row. They all say together "Ret's do it!"
# | 浅 | Shallow | あさ ; せん | Tsunami + Bar | If you visit a bar after a tsunami, you’ll be hanging out in shallow water. After a tsunami, you want to relax with a drink at the bar. Unfortunately, tsunamis cause floods, and the bar floor is immersed in shallow water. Picture yourself at this bar, sipping on a drink while you’re wading in this shallow water. Feel the shallow water getting your socks and shoes all wet. It’s uncomfortable and cold. What beer are you drinking at this bar while standing in shallow water? You’re drinking Asahi (あさ), the beer of the salaryman. Asahi is super dry, so it takes your attention away from the shallow water a bit. Picture yourself in the bar again sipping on this Asahi beer. Taste the beery beer taste of Asahi as you walk around the bar with your wet feet.
# | 単 | Simple | たん | Simple | The simple radical and the simple kanji are the same! Simple is simple! One of the most simple things in the world is getting a tan (たん). All you have to do is stand outside long enough. It doesn't matter what skin type you have or what the weather is like. Eventually, if you stand out there long enough, you'll get a tan. Get a tan, it's simple, stupid! (Though it's terrible for you so uh... don't always take our advice, kay?)
# | 技 | Skill, Technique | ぎ ; わざ | Fingers + Branch | You can branch out your fingers. It's your special skill that requires some good techniques. Your fingers branch out into smaller fingers and you can hold things really well. You can type super-duper fast. And you can win any tickle fight. These are skills you have thanks to your branching fingers. If you could have any skill imaginable, what would it be? Wouldn't it be nice to have these magical branching fingers? (Definitely. It would.) Unfortunately, these skills are too much for the normal skill-less people to handle and they pull out the guillotine (ぎ). I guess they're going to chop off your skillful fingers because they're kinda scary. Imagine a tiny guillotine made for the cutting of fingers. Whoever made this must have had special hand skills too! Maybe they tested it on them...
# | 坂 | Slope | さか ; はん | Dirt + Anti | This is anti dirt. The dirt is becoming not dirt as it goes on, forming a... slope! Really what is the air above a slope but anti dirt? This is some high level thinking, but I know you can do it. Picture a slope. Now picture an anti slope (like a negative image). It's all just dirt and anti dirt at the same time! Woah! Mind Freak! You need to know these kinds of things about slopes if you want to play soccer (さか). Soccer is pretty slope-intensive. You really have to know how to read their dirt and anti dirt to really get good. Picture a slope. Now picture yourself playing soccer on the slope. Now picture your anti self playing soccer on the anti slope.
# | 匹 | Small Animal, Small Animal Counter | ひき ; ひつ | Cage + Legs | In the cage there are some legs. They are the legs attached to a small animal. You can only see the legs, though, because a cloth is covering the cage. What kind of small animal is it? Try to look. You look up through the cloth, and see a hairless cat. This small animal is hairless, but most surprisingly is covered in hickies (ひき). Who is giving this cat all those hickies? Pretty gross, if you ask me.
# | 春 | Spring | はる ; しゅん | Spring + Sun | When you see the spring sun you know it's finally the  spring season. The spring sun only comes out in spring, which is why you know for sure it's spring. Imagine a different looking sun that only comes out in spring but not the other seasons. When the spring season comes around, it makes you want to laugh: "HAR (はる) HAR HAR!" you yell. Go ahead and belt out a few "HAR HAR HARs" for spring. It's warming up, everything is coming to life, and you're happy. "HAR HAR HAR!"
# | 術 | Technique, Art | じゅつ ; すべ | Go + Angel + Drop | There go some angels with drops on their shoulders. Carrying drops like that requires technique. It’s a real art. Angels are really good at going around carrying drops! Imagine the artistry and technique involved. I bet they do some kind of dance, and there's lots of sparkly magic. Angels are so good at this because they are trained in ninjutsu (じゅつ), or the "ninja techniques." Everyone knows that ninjas are great at carrying drops on the go! Imagine an angel trained in ninjutsu. Marvel at all their divine ninja techniques!
# | 寺 | Temple | てら ; じ | Temple | The temple radical and the temple kanji are exactly the same! Brilliant.  Someone died. You ask how this person died, the person who's getting buried by the temple. The priest/monk says it was in a tragic terror (てら) attack. That's too bad - feel sorry for the person and learn a little more about the terror attack, if it will help you to remember the reading of this kanji better.
# | 浴 | Bathe | よく ; あ | Tsunami + Valley | A tsunami hits a valley, filling it up with water. Lucky for you, you're a giant, so you just lay down in the valley and use it to bathe. Sure, there's a lot of water in the valley, but you're big too. It's the perfect place for you to bathe... and good thing too, you're getting smelly. You know what would make the bathing experience even better? If you had some egg yolks (よく) to eat. Just crack those yolks into the water you bathe in, and it'll cook to perfection. Yum! Imagine cooking egg yolks in the same water you bathe in.
# | 箱 | Box | はこ | Bamboo + Tree + Eye | Having a keen eye for woodworking, you can tell that the bamboo from that tree over there will make an excellent box. Boxes made from bamboo trees are very sturdy and fashionable. You have an eye for fashion as well, you see. At some point in school, you most likely had some sort of woodshop class to take. Remember back to those times and imagine yourself crafting a bamboo box out of a bamboo tree you felled yourself. Don’t forget to wear eye protection though! Wouldn’t want anything to happen to those valuable eyes of yours. Now you can use that box to store all your hardcore (はこ) punk vinyls. You’re a real connoisseur, so you know that hardcore music should only ever be kept in bamboo boxes. Picture yourself filling up your lovingly crafted bamboo box with your collection of hardcore punk and rock records. Ah, they fit just perfectly thanks to that discerning eye of yours.
# | 係 | Connection | けい ; かか, かかり | Leader + Ground + Thread | A psychic leader can pick a thread up off the ground and make a connection with the person that it came from. This leader is very powerful, so even a thread is enough for them to make a psychic connection with the person who was wearing the thread. Imagine you are this leader and you just picked up this piece of thread from the ground. You get a jarring psychic connection with the owner of the thread. Your head spins, your heart races, and your hands tremble. Picture this happening to you as you pick up the thread from the ground. As you develop this psychic connection with the owner of the thread, you can tell that he is currently eating a cake (けい). The connection is so strong that you feel like you're eating the cake as well. It’s vanilla strawberry. You taste the fluffy and creamy vanilla strawberry flavors washing over your tongue. Imagine yourself eating this delectable cake. It’s fantastically delicious.
# | 治 | Cure, Heal, Reign, Rule | じ, ち ; なお | Tsunami + Machine | After a tsunami, use this machine to cure the people and the country from the damage. Healing machines are all over Japan just in case a tsunami does way more damage than they can handle. Oh, and whoever cures and heals the most people will be able to rule over them once everything starts going back to normal. So keep that in mind, kay? Imagine if you had your own machine to cure yourself if a tsunami came to where you live. It would be pretty convenient! Alternative ways to cure yourself after a tsunami are either praying to Jesus (じ) or eating your weight in cheese (ち). I'm not sure if I have enough cheese for all the people that got hit though... Hmm, do you have cheese? Before you make your decision, remember that whoever cures you will be able to reign over you and your people. So do you want to be led by Jesus or by some cheese? The choice is yours. Imagine getting Jesus to cure half the people and feeding the other half lots of cheese and their wounds miraculously healing on their own! You're a hero!
# | 危 | Dangerous | き ; あぶ, あや | Prison + Cliff + Snake | There is a prison on a cliff surrounded by snakes. Now that's a dangerous place. If you try to escape the prison you either fall to your death off the cliff or get bitten/squeezed to death by the snakes. Can you think of anything more dangerous than this? I can't. Imagine a dangerous prison surrounded by cliffs and snakes. You wouldn't want to be here either, would you? Lucky for you, even though you're stuck in this dangerous place, there is hope. There is a key (き). All dangerous prisons have a key. You just have to find and steal it so you can avoid the cliffs and snakes! Imagine staring at the key dangling right outside of the dangerous prison you're trapped in. Would you take the chance and go for it?
# | 冒 | Dare | ぼう ; おか | Sun + Eye | When the sun gets in your eye, I dare you to stare at it. I dare you to look right at the sun. I dare you. Looking at the sun straight on hurts. It’s bad for your eyes and burns your brain. Imagine how painful it is to stare at the sun. After you’ve blinded yourself from the dare of looking at the sun and losing sight in each eye, the guy dares you to go bowling (ぼう). You’re blind now, so bowling will be quite the challenge. Picture yourself bowling without the power of sight. It would be awfully difficult to do well. You’d just have to concentrate really hard on the sound of the pins and determine where you need to throw the ball.
# | 留 | Detain | る, りゅう ; と, とど | Private + Sword + Rice Paddy | A group of private sword guys are in your rice paddy. You must detain them at once! Private sword guys are people who work for private companies and use their swords on people. They're basically paid assassins. And you're going to detain them! Imagine running into the rice paddy and detaining the private sword holders one by one. They won't get away this time! You're running out of steam and you're afraid you might not be able to detain all of these guys when Ryu (りゅう) from Street Fighter appears. He hates swords, and will only use fists because it's the honorable way to fight, so he starts helping you detain them! He's also found a loophole (る) in the system and you don't have to be super gentle with these guys either. So detain them as forcefully as you want. It is your rice paddy they're in, after all. If Ryu hadn't shown up with this loophole you never would have detained all these private sword guys by yourself!
# | 弁 | Dialect, Speech | べん | Private + Twenty | If you listened in to the private lives of twenty people, all of them would have different dialects and ways of speech. Whether they actually use these dialects with you is another story. But when they're alone, or with other people who are from the same place, their speech will be different. Can you even imagine twenty different dialects in your head? Well I can tell you that there are definitely at least twenty of them in Japan alone. The best way to learn someone's dialect is to buy them a bento (べん) from where they're from. Not only do these bento have writing in their dialect on them, but their speech will immediately shift to match. Then you'll be able to hear how they sound in their head and in private! It also helps that bento are delicious, and anyone with any dialect will love them.
# | 証 | Evidence, Proof | しょう ; あかし | Say + Correct | What I say is correct 100%! You may use it as evidence in this murder case. You convince the officials questioning you that your evidence can be trusted and it's proof that you definitely didn't have anything to do with any law breaking or murdering. The officials force you to present this evidence in front of the Shougun (しょう), himself. Your knees quake, you feel like you're gonna be sick, but you try to stand up tall and tell him everything. After all, you know your proof is correct, so you shouldn't be so scared. You better hope the Shougun believes your evidence is accurate, because he's known to kill people willy-nilly when he thinks they're lying.
# | 存 | Exist, Suppose | そん, ぞん | Narwhal + Stick + Child | If a narwhal sticks a child with its horn then you have to admit that it exists. We know some of you have been doubting narwhals and whether they're real. Well now your kid is a kabob, so do you believe they exist now? I suppose you do. Imagine needing this kind of horrible proof to believe something exists. Maybe you should have more faith in what we teach. Oh, and the child we had to narwhal stab to prove they exist - that's your son (そん). Maybe you should have listened and kept your son out of the Narwhal Danger Zone (ぞん) after we warned you about it. I suppose you'll never forget that narwhals exist now that your son has one permanently stuck in him.
# | 面 | Face, Surface | めん ; おも, おもて | Face | The face radical and the face kanji are the same! But this isn't just a face like the one you're looking at your computer/phone with. It's the surface kind of face too! The next time you look at your face, also notice how much surface area it has. This face you're looking at, that has a lot of surface area, belongs to men (めん). Not a single man, but all men put together. It's hundreds of thousands of men's faces in a row. Look at the face of all men put together. Measure how much surface area they all take up.
# | 遠 | Far | えん ; とお | Scooter + Zombie | You see a scooter with a zombie on it, going really far away. Someone tied that zombie to the scooter and now it's far off in the distance, groaning and growling. Picture the zombie, going far off into the distance. It's getting smaller and harder to see. The zombie goes so far, that its life ends (えん). Zombies need to eat to live (it's really all they need), but they go so far on their scooter trip, that they just give up and end it all. I mean, to be fair, the zombie wasn't really alive to begin with. But going far enough to end it all? That's some serious distance!
# | 園 | Garden, Park | えん ; その | Mouth + Zombie | You examine the mouth of a zombie and find a small garden in there. There are even benches... it looks like a park. Zombies are dead, so I guess their mouths have all the things garden plants crave. Their mouths are like compost piles, if you think about it. You look closer at the garden and suddenly everything ends (えん). Oh. The zombie probably bit down on your head and now it's the end for you. At least you were looking at a nice garden at the end of it all...
# | 門 | Gates, Gate | もん ; と, かど | Gate | The radical for gate and the kanji for gates are the same! Know your radicals or you won't be allowed to pass. You want to pass through this gate but it’s guarded by… a monster (もん)! Picture the most terrifying monster you can imagine, standing as tall as the gate itself. How on earth are you ever going to get past that thing?!
# | 府 | Government | ふ | Canopy + Attach | A canopy attaching your entire country is the government. They loom over you all and try to keep you all organized and together under their control. Picture a map of the world with actual canopies attached to each government, representing the ruling governments of each place. Try to get out from under this government canopy and you'll be labeled a fool (ふ). Unless... you can fool them! Think of all the people who've been labeled as fools by the government because they try to detach themselves from under their reach. It's a pretty long list...
# | 幸 | Happiness | こう ; しあわ, さいわ, さち | Lid + Spicy | Put a lid on something spicy and you'll cook up pure happiness. Spicy foods literally do trigger happy chemicals in your brain. It wouldn't be too far off to say that putting a lid on a pot filled with something spicy could produce happiness. Out of spicy foods you made pure happiness. You give it to your sad friend こういち, who waits at the table. こういち looks sad. But when you serve him happiness, he starts to perk up a bit. A couple more bites of happiness, and there's a smile on his face. Although when you found こういち he was depressed, down on his luck, and hiding from the government, cooking him some spicy foods seems to have brought him some happiness.
# | 阪 | Heights, Slope | はん ; さか | Building + Anti | If you're anti-building, you're probably afraid of heights and slopes. The only downside to a building is that they're high and if you fall off of them you could die. So if someone says they're anti-building, they're really just anti-heights. Imagine standing on the edge of a very high building. If you feel sick or upset, you may be one of these anti-height people! Another person you know who's afraid of heights is Han (はん) Solo. Now wait, you may be thinking, he flies a space ship! You're right, because he doesn't like to walk all the way up high buildings, it freaks him out. He flies up instead so he doesn't have to think about falling. Imagine standing at the top of a tall building with Han Solo. He's very afraid of heights. They make him nervous. Like something bad will happen if he were to ever stand above a big pit, high up.
# | 急 | Hurry, Sudden | きゅう ; いそ | Prison + Wolverine + Heart | A wolverine's heart is in prison, so you need to hurry to set it free. But don't be too sudden, or its heart won't survive. And the wolverine's death will be on you. Imagine a dying wolverine, its heart trapped in a prison. Hurry, save it! You aren't going fast enough! Hurry, hurry! You're trying to hurry as fast as you can to save the wolverine. But you're losing strength, so you grab a cucumber (きゅう) from your bag and munch on it to get some of your hurrying power back. Cucumbers help you hurry to where you need to go. Something about the smell, crunch, and taste helps you hurry it up.
# | 笑 | Laugh | わら, え ; しょう | Bamboo + Heaven | Bamboo heaven is a place for laughing. Bamboo is a very jolly plant, and they love to laugh. Even after death in bamboo heaven, the bamboo continue to laugh joyfully. Bamboo heaven is truly a place of laughter. Imagine yourself as a bamboo plant that laughs in heaven. What are you laughing about? Chuckle to yourself as you remember this kanji. There’s actually a war a goin’ on up in that there bamboo heaven, y’know? Ye might not have heard of it with all that there laughin’ a goin’ on, but there definitely be a war a (わら) goin’ on up in bamboo heaven, y’hear? The bamboo are scared so that’s why they be laughin’ so much. They nervous. Now picture these bamboo again up in bamboo heaven, and remember this strange accent to remember that the bamboo plants up in bamboo heaven are laughing with nervous laughter at this bamboo war that’s a goin’ on up there.
# | 荷 | Luggage | に ; か | Flowers + Leader + Lip Ring | The lip ring wearing leader of the Flowers Gang does not carry his own luggage anywhere. He is so powerful, respected, and feared that people always carry his luggage for him wherever he goes. You might not think a leader of a gang called the Flowers would be intimidating, but he is. Picture this lip ring wearing gang leader. He’s clad in studded leather and has a big flower embroidered onto the back of his jacket. It’s a big thorny rose. Imagine him in your head, hear the sound of his leather outfit as he strides along unencumbered by luggage. Remember that giant thorny rose on the lip ring wearing leader’s back? The thorns coming out of it are real, and they’re as sharp as needles (に). You wouldn’t want to prick your finger on them. They’re super pointy and he uses them to defend his luggage. Imagine how much it hurts to get pricked by a needle, especially on your finger. Picture this happening to you now. Not comfortable, is it?
# | 企 | Plan | き ; くわだ, たくら | Hat + Stop | The hat comes to a stop, thinking of a plan. The hat had been pacing around for a while, trying to think of how to get off the head he's resting upon and back into the house where it's nice and cozy, and came to the sudden realization of a plan. This caused the hat to stop. Imagine a hat walking about on your head, pacing back and forth deep in thought. See the hat stroke its chin in contemplation as it tries to think up a plan to get off your noggin and back inside. The plan that made this hat stop right in its tracks was very simple. First, obtain the key (き) to the house. Then, use the key to get in the front door. How simple! Watch as the hat begins to grin. This plan is so simple it’s sure to work. Now watch as the hat obtains the key and enters the locked door. What sort of mischief will the hat get into once inside?
# | 政 | Politics, Government | せい | Correct + Winter | It's correct in winter to focus on politics and the government. Elections are happening, in the new year politicians are being sworn in. Winter is government time! Imagine all this politics and government talk as you shiver outside in the winter cold. You’re freezing and you’re bored, but you know this is the right (correct) thing to do. Everyone involved in politics and government wields a special saber (せい). If two political parties are arguing, they'll whip out their sabers and start slashing away! Picture two different politicians, both wielding sabers, fighting to make the government the way they want it to be! Who are you rooting for?
# | 品 | Product, Article, Goods, Products | ひん ; しな | Products | The products radical and the product kanji are exactly the same! Productive!  As you try to sell these products, you finally get a buyer. It's a Hindu (ひん) person. She walks in and buys your products on the spot! Then another Hindu person walks in your store and buys some. Then another... What are all these Hindu people doing buying your products, you wonder? When you ask them, they tell you "it's a cultural thing."
# | 守 | Protect | す, しゅ ; まも, もり | Roof + Measurement | Your roof needs measurements done every year to make sure it will protect you properly. If you think about it, your roof protects you from a lot of things! Rain, snow, bird poop. But if your roof's measurements are off it won't be able to protect you properly. If the measurements are off, and your roof doesn't protect you, then you get to sue (す)! If you're still alive, that is. Odds are, the roof collapsed or a tree fell on you and you died from lack of protection. So now your family and friends are going to sue on your behalf.
# | 辞 | Quit, Word | じ ; や | Tongue + Spicy | When your tongue becomes too spicy for you to bear, it’s time to quit the jalapeño eating contest. You’ve been eating them for three hours now and the spiciness from the peppers is really burning your tongue. Throw in the towel, it’s time to quit the contest. This kanji has another meaning too: Eating isn't the only thing that makes your tongue spicy, so do certain words. Say your favorite words out loud right now. Feel them on your tongue. Words are the spicy food of language! You may have to quit eating but you never have to quit saying words. Especially if you're, well, trying to learn a whole new language full of them. Oh, you're probably wondering who won that spicy food contest after you quit and became obsessed with words instead. It was Jesus (じ). Who did you expect? He was great with words AND never quitting when things got spicy. Picture Jesus scarfing down jalapeño peppers. He never quits. And then he says some words about how the jalapeños gave up their lives for this contest, so we better appreciate them. Thanks Jesus!
# | 真 | Reality | しん ; ま | Pope + Ground + Fins | If the pope spends all day staring at fins on the ground, he’s going to lose touch with reality. He should be focusing on his popish duties, but instead he’s looking at the fish fins he dropped, and now can’t eat because they’re dirty. Silly pope. You can’t let this one thing get you down. You have other things to do. Picture trying to get the pope to stop staring at the fins lying on the dirty ground. His eyes are all big. Yup, he’s completely lost touch with reality, you think. You’re doing your best to bring the pope back to reality when he snaps and kicks you in the shin (しん). Oww! What the heck, pope! But he’s already back staring at the fins and your shin is throbbing where he kicked. Imagine the pope angrily kicking your shin super hard. You fall over and pull it close. Feel how badly it aches. Who knew you’d need shin guards to deal with a pope that’s lost touch with reality just from dropping his dinner.
# | 関 | Related, Connected | かん ; かか, せき | Gate + Horns + Heaven | This gate of horns will take you to heaven. These horns are related and connected to heaven in some way. Perhaps they are related to heaven because the devil has horns? Perhaps they are connected to heaven because these are the horns of heaven's enemies? The real reason they're connected will be revealed in the reading mnemonic. They are related and connected to heaven because these are the horns that Genghis Khan (かん) made from his enemies. God said he could come into heaven if he made a gate of horns, so that's what he did. Imagine Genghis Khan taking horns off his enemies, and making a gate to heaven. The horn gate is connected to both heaven and Genghis Khan in that way.
# | 険 | Risky, Steep | けん ; けわ | Building + Squid | Going into a building made by a squid is risky. First of all, squids only have tentacles, no bones, and they make all of their buildings out of risky materials like kelp and sharp coral. One squid got stuck in his own building, but no one could save him because going in would be too risky. Poor little squid. "It's too risky, leave me!" the squid cries. "I'll save you, underwater citizen! Nothing is too risky for Ken (けん) the samurai!" The building is collapsing on the squid, the risk is so great, but Ken the samurai dives in and saves him! The squid cries, "I can build one that isn't so risky next time!" Ken shakes his head, "I'm not letting you do anymore risky things, you're coming with me from now on." Ken scoops up the squid into a bucket, hoists him over his shoulder, and walks off into the sunset. Who knows what adventures await our new duo. All we know is that they'll definitely be getting into some risky business.
# | 典 | Rule | てん | Music + Fins | If you play music with your fins, one rule is that you must be a fish. You can’t play music using fish fins that don’t belong to you. That’s the rule. And it’s also rude. Imagine a fish playing music using his fins. What kind of a song is it? Imagine it in your head as you see a sign with the fish fin rule on it. There’s also a rule in place to limit the amount of fish fin musicians. No more than ten (てん) are allowed to gather and play their music together. That’s the rule. No more than ten. Picture a group of ten (as per the rule) fish playing music with their fins. Now the song can be louder and more intricate. Imagine it playing in your head.
# | 専 | Specialty | せん ; もっぱ | Cross + Rice Paddy + Measurement | Sticking a cross into a rice paddy to get its measurements is your specialty. Most people get really confused when they have to measure their rice paddies, but that's where you come in. You plant a cross right in the middle, look down it from one end to the other, and voila! You know the measurements immediately. That's why it's your specialty! Visualize yourself doing this. The numbers just come to you. It's just what you're good at. Your specialty is something no one else in the world is as good at as you! Hearing of your amazing specialty and cross measurement abilities, a centaur (せん) from a far off land recruits you for a job. The centaur’s father has just passed away and the centaur wants you to measure the rice paddies that have been left to him. Picture yourself at a centaur funeral. Tons of centaurs standing around and stamping their hooves as you make your measurement and stick a cross into the ground.
# | 冗 | Superfluous, Unnecessary, Uselessness | じょう | Forehead + Table | A forehead table is completely superfluous. Seriously, you don't need a forehead table. It's totally unnecessary to have a table made of foreheads and is a superfluous purchase. First of all, getting all those foreheads is a waste of people. Second, forehead tables aren't very strong. Superfluous, superfluous, superfluous. The only person you know with a superfluous forehead table is Joe (じょう), the ten foot tall, simple farmhand. Now every time you visit Joe, you’ll have to look at his giant, superfluous forehead table. Imagine how gross it looks, with dozens of foreheads protruding from its surface. Only Joe would buy such a thing.
*** | 曜 | Weekday, Day Of The Week | よう | Sun + Wolverine + Turkey | As the sun rises over the hills, the ferocious wolverine stalks a turkey on a weekday morning. The wolverine hunts turkeys for a living, but on the weekends, he likes to play racquetball at the local gym. That’s why the turkey is getting hunted on a weekday. You’ve probably seen those nature shows like on National Geographic. Think back to one of those shows where the hunter stalks its prey and leaps out in slow motion to do the murder. Now imagine this scene with the wolverine leaping out at the turkey. The wolverine howls a bloodcurdling shriek as the turkey lurches in agony, feathers flying everywhere as the wolverine sinks its teeth into flesh. This wolverine has a strange palate, however. It likes to turn its turkey into turkey yogurt (よう). After the hunt every weekday, the wolverine spends the evening turning the turkey meat into a strange, thick and chunky, turkey yogurt. Imagine eating this turkey yogurt. It tastes pretty much exactly how you would expect. Chunks of turkey meat mixed with thick and creamy yogurt. It tastes like mushy Thanksgiving. Imagine eating this every day of the week.
# | 書 | Write, Writing | しょ ; か | Brush + Sun | Why would you try to take a brush to the sun? It's almost too obvious, because you want to write something down. Just imagine yourself sitting on the sun, writing back to your friends and family with a brush. For someone who can visit the sun, it's really weird that you are writing with a brush like this, but you're doing it just the same. What did you write about? You were writing about this amazing circus show (しょ) you just watched on the sun. You didn't expect there to be any shows here, but turns out you were wrong! Think of your favorite live shows and imagine them on the sun. Also imagine yourself writing back to your friends and family about said shows.
# | 是 | Absolutely | ぜ | Sun + Correct | The sun is correct, absolutely. The mighty sun is never wrong. It is absolutely correct, always. Imagine the sun in the sky. Its rays blind you as it corrects all of the errors you’ve made. Then, a zeppelin (ぜ) flies in front of the sun, blocking it out. Absolutely, the sun cannot ignore this transgression. Therefore, the sun corrects the zeppelin’s evil ways by frying it with sunshine and bringing it to the ground. Imagine the sun being so absolutely consumed with rage that it catches a zeppelin on fire and crashes it. Feel the heat from the grounded zeppelin as it smolders.
# | 結 | Bind, Tie | けつ ; むす, ゆ | Thread + Good Luck | You use a thread for good luck by binding two fingers together. You tie them nice and tight. Tying two fingers together with a good luck thread is very common where you're from. After you bind your fingers, the good luck starts pouring in. Literally. Suddenly ketsup (けつ) starts pouring down from the heavens. This ketsup is exactly what you were looking for, but now it won't stop. You need to get out of this bind by untying the thread on your finger. But it won't budge. It's covered in ketsup. Help! You're going to drown!
# | 底 | Bottom | そこ ; てい | Canopy + Clan + Ground | Under a canopy your clan digs in the ground, trying to get to the bottom. They want to build a nice home your entire clan can live in, but they need to get to the bottom before they'll start building. Picture all of the people in your clan under this canopy digging with all their might, trying to find the bottom. "Isn't there... no bottom though?" you think to yourself. Suddenly someone down in the hole shouts that they've reached the bottom, but it's full of water and they're all soaked (そこ)! The bottom is full of water, and everyone and everything down there is soaked through now.
# | 因 | Cause | いん ; よ | Mouth + Big | Your big mouth is the cause of all your problems. Imagine all the dumb things you blabber about with your mouth open big and wide. Saying things you shouldn't say... causing drama and stuff. Shame on you. Your big mouth causes all of your friends and family to move to an inn (いん) so they don't have to live near you and hear you talk anymore. Who knew you could cause people to live in an inn instead of their own homes with your big mouth...
# | 詳 | Detailed | しょう ; くわ | Say + Sheep | They say sheep are detailed creatures. I mean, I never thought sheep were very detailed, but that’s what they say. Imagine getting really close to a sheep and seeing all the tiny detailed curls in their wool. There are hidden patterns you'd never noticed before now! The reason these sheep are so detailed is that they are trying to impress the Shougun (しょう). If they're fancy enough, perhaps the Shougun won’t kill them for their meat and make their wool into clothing. Picture the Shougun, leaning in close to inspect the detailed patterns all over the sheep. His nose is so close, he can probably smell all the little detailed nuances of the sheep's musk too.
# | 識 | Discerning, Discriminating, Know | しき | Say + Sound + Drunkard | If you sound like a drunkard when you say things, people will not think of you as a discerning person. "AWh yeah, that game is greatttt," you say in your drunken slurs. But, really, it sounds like you think all games are great, which isn't all that discriminating of you at all. Picture yourself as a drunkard. What sort of discerning things are you saying? What are you trying to discern? Do you know? So, we've figured out that your drunken utterances are not very discerning. But let's think about someone who is discerning. You're sitting next to an extremely  chic (しき) individual, and boy do they sound like they know what they are talking about. Maybe it's because they’re not drunk like you. They are so chic and have such discerning taste! Imagine the very chic person saying some very (in your eyes) discerning things about everything around them. Color yourself impressed (and feel the impressed-ness)!
# | 劇 | Drama | げき | Tiger + Pig + Knife | A tiger kills a pig with a knife in this new drama about the animal kingdom! The tiger and pig used to be friends when they were younger, but now they're bitter enemies and the tiger just stabbed the pig right in the chest with a knife. Picture this scene from the drama as dramatically as you can. The pig stares into the tiger's eyes, "Tiger, you wouldn't–uh!" The pig's eyes slowly lower to see the knife sticking into its gut, the tiger's hand still holding it. "This is what you get, you pig," the tiger spits back, twisting. This drama is being put on by Gecki (げき), your childhood pet gecko. Gecki is playing all the parts, because as true drama fans know, one-gecko-shows are the highest form of art. Picture Gecki acting out the part of the tiger and the pig in this drama. It's so intense, you're moved to tears. Bravo Gecki, bravo!
# | 干 | Dry | かん ; ほ, ひ | Dry | The dry radical and the dry kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! You need to dry Genghis Khan (かん). He hates being wet, all of the Mongols do, so your job is to dry his entire body. And his clothes, and his horse. In fact, when it rains, you have to ride next to him keeping him dry by holding an umbrella above his head. Imagine keeping Genghis Khan completely dry all day every day. He won't even get wet to bathe. Instead he makes you rub his body with dry sand and salts.
# | 敗 | Failure, Defeat | はい ; やぶ | Shellfish + Winter | A shellfish that can't live through winter is a failure. Any proper shellfish would survive through the winter, so this is quite an embarrassing defeat. Imagine you're a shellfish in the cold, cold winter. The water is freezing but you must tough it out so no one will say you're a failure in spring when they find your dead, defeated shellfish body. The best way to avoid failure is to say a little haiku (はい) to distract you from the cold. In fact, this can work in any situation where you're afraid of defeat. Say a haiku aloud, it will calm your nerves and warm you from the inside. Imagine being a shellfish freezing in the cold winter water, but you avoid failure by muttering haiku over and over to keep you warm and determined.
# | 渉 | Ford, Wade | しょう ; わた | Tsunami + Walk | A tsunami is coming, and you want to walk over it, so you have to ford it. You don’t walk across a tsunami, you wade across it. Imaging taking your shoes off, hiking up your pants, and holding all of your things above your head as you ford across the tsunami. Your ability to ford this tsunami impresses everyone who witnesses it, especially the Shougun (しょう). Now that you've taught him a tsunami can be forded, he's going to start sending his troops through them instead of waiting for them to pass. Your new fording techniques have increased the Shougun's military power! Congrats, I guess.
# | 果 | Fruit | か ; くだ, は | Fruit | The fruit radical and the fruit kanji are exactly the same! Bodacious!  They sell fruit at the store, and you need to drive your car (か) to get there. A car is the fastest way to fruit. Imagine you have a hankering for your favorite fruit. You gotta get in your car and put the pedal to the metal! Feel the wind in your hair as your car speeds down the road and listen to that engine purr.
# | 官 | Government | かん | Roof + Bear | Under this roof is a bear who works for the government. If you saw a bear out in the wild you might be afraid and try to run, but if you see a bear inside a building under a roof, don't be scared! It's just a government bear. Picture the government bear looking through government documents and snorting gruffly as it decides what to sign and what to reject. It has a little government sash and hat. The first government that allowed bears was set up by Genghis Khan (かん). He was all about conquering people and then using them as efficiently as possible. He discovered that bears are incredibly useful in government buildings as government workers. Picture Genghis Khan patting the first bear government worker on the back as they start their first day working for the government.
# | 署 | Government Office, Political Office, Office | しょ | Net + Someone | This net is for someone who works in a government office. You'll also take someone from a political office. Doesn't matter who, but you're going to catch someone from a government office using this net, it doesn't matter who. Government office and political office people put on the best shows (しょ). That's why you want to capture someone from there with your net. Imagine the show they put on. You'll call your show "Exactly 8 Hours of Bureaucracy."
# | 察 | Guess | さつ | Roof + Festival | If you're on the roof of the festival you'll have to guess what's actually going on below you. You can kind of see that there are rides and maybe food? It smells like food. But you have to guess on the specifics because you're above it and not in it. Imagine being on the roof above a festival. Can you guess what's happening below you based on the sounds and smells? You were trying to guess by leaning over the edge of the roof, but you almost slip, and sat (さつ) down instead. Now imagine yourself just after you sat down. You close your eyes and open your ears and you can guess a lot better. You should have sat down earlier so you could concentrate on guessing better rather than endangering yourself.
# | 堂 | Hall, Public Chamber | どう | Viking + Mouth + Dirt | A Viking will empty his mouth of all its dirt in the great hall. They all get together in some kind of public chamber and dish all the dirt (literal and figurative) that they've got. Picture a long Viking hall, with a big table and tons of chairs. All of the Vikings are gossiping and sharing all their dirt on their enemies. While the Vikings gather to spill the dirt in their hall, they also stuff their faces with doughnuts (どう). Ah yes, Vikings love to eat doughnuts when they talk trash. Now picture all of the Vikings in the hall spitting dirt with one breath and shoveling doughnuts in with the next. It's pretty gross!
# | 幻 | Illusion | げん ; まぼろし | Poop + Cape | You hide poop in a cape as part of the illusion in your magic show. Your acts are kind of gross and this one involves creating the illusion of disappearing poop by hiding it within the folds of your cape. Imagine having poop in your cape. It would smell bad and anyone close to you would be able to smell right through the illusion. Somehow the poop cape illusion goes over really well. The crowd is giving you a standing ovation and right in the center is Genji (げん). He marches up to you, wipes a tear from his eye, and says, "Your illusion cape is wonderful. I must have it!" Genji grabs the cape before you can stop him and he puts it on. You can see the illusion fade, he keeps smiling but more tears start streaming down his face. "A wonderful illusion, the best I've ever seen," he chokes out and marches away, without looking back.
# | 非 | Injustice, Negative, Mistake | ひ | Criminal | A criminal has done an injustice on the world or other people. Being a criminal is a negative thing, and even if it was just a mistake, it was still a crime. Think of all the criminals you know. Even if what they did was a mistake, it was still some type of injustice, right? It was something the rest of the world sees as a negative thing. When you commit an injustice, you'll know because heat (ひ) fills your body. Maybe you've never done any kind of big thing, but when you make a mistake your face fills with heat and you turn red! This is the heat of embarrassment, of knowing you did something negative or wrong.
# | 愛 | Love | あい ; まな | Cleat + Forehead + Heart + Winter | Putting on cleats in the heart of winter and braving the harsh elements just to plant a kiss on your sweetheart’s forehead – that’s love. Sure, you could see them another day, but you need to plant this smooch on their forehead today, so you get some cleats for better grip on the winter snow and you keep thoughts of your dear in your heart as you travel to see your love. Feel the joy of love in your heart as you travel out in the winter. It’s cold outside, but the feeling of love in your heart keeps you warm. Feel this warm love emanating and heating your body. Walking through the winter snows with your cleats on, you’ve gotta keep your eye (あい) on the prize. It’s a really hard journey, but you keep your eye on the prize, which is your love and the time you’ll get to spend with them. Imagine seeing your love with your own two eyes after a long time away from them. It feels great to be reunited and see eye to eye once again. Imagine this feeling.
# | 薬 | Medicine, Drug, Drugs | やく ; くすり | Flowers + Comfort | Flowers can be used for comfort, but also for medicine. Sure, it’s a comfort to smell flowers because they smell nice, but one can also use them as medicine to heal people. Imagine having some medicine that smells and tastes like fresh cut flowers. Smell the smell in your nose and taste the taste on your tongue. The best way to transport all the medicine on land is with a yak (やく). Yaks are big, strong, and very capable of transporting flower medicine like these. Picture a yak in your mind. Pretend you are riding atop the yak as it transports this medicine. Feel the fur of the yak in your hands as you cling on for dear life.
# | 覚 | Memorize, Awake | かく ; おぼ, さ | Viking + See | Viking see, Viking memorize. That’s how Vikings learn things. They see something, and then they memorize it. Quite simple, really. It can also mean awake. Just remember that Vikings can't see if they aren't awake. There won't be anything to memorize if their eyes are still closed, after all! How else would a Viking memorize something? Imagine having to memorize sea charts for your Viking navigation. Look and see the maps in your brain as you memorize them. Every morning, a cock (かく) crows and rouses the Vikings. Seeing this, one of the Vikings memorizes the cock crow so that he can mimic it and play pranks on his fellow Vikings. Imagine yourself memorizing the sound of a cock crow and using it to play jokes on your fellow Vikings. Cock-a-doodle-doo!
# | 常 | Normal, Ordinary, Usual | じょう ; つね | Viking + Mouth + Towel | A viking with a mouth towel is a totally normal thing. It's ordinary. Vikings get a lot of nasty stuff on their mouths from their messy eating and pillaging, so it makes sense that they'd all have mouth towels. It's as ordinary and normal as it gets, at least amongst the vikings. It's normal for a viking to have a mouth towel, but your sloppy farmhand friend Joe(じょう) has a mouth towel too. That's a habit that's only normal for vikings, so why does he have one? When you ask Joe about his Viking mouth towel, he just tells you, "It's normal for everyone to have mouth towels. Totally ordinary." Now that you think about it, he really is a messy dude, so he probably needs it.
# | 鼻 | Nose | はな ; び | Self + Rice Paddy + Twenty | You’re all by your lonesome self and have to check your rice paddies, all twenty of them! Luckily, you have the most astute of all noses, allowing you to quickly assess the state of your twenty rice paddies all by yourself. Really focus in on your nose. Your nostrils get huge, and your nose is huge. Smell the rice and its freshness in your imagination. Your nose is amazing. As you’re about to finish checking your paddies, your nose picks up an additional smell: It’s Hannah, bringing you a bunch of 花 (はな)! Remember Hannah from when she helped the leader with his 花 problem? Looks like she’s brought a bunch over just for you. Really breathe in the lovely smell of the 花 deeply through your nose. Thanks Hannah!
# | 無 | Nothing | む, ぶ ; な | Nothing | The nothing radical and the nothing kanji are exactly the same! Woah!  Nothing can moo (む) quite like a cow can moo. Cows are the best at going moo. That’s a fact. Listen to this cow moo. Can you do a better moo than this moo cow? Nope.
# | 原 | Original, Fundamental, Field | げん ; はら | Original | The original radical and the original kanji are the same! This kanji can also mean field, probably because that's what everything originally looked like before humans: just a bunch of fields. Know your radicals! I shouldn't even have to tell you this by now. The original Japanese hero was Genji (げん), from "The Tale of Genji." Picture Genji, the original Japanese protagonist, walking through the streets. He's signing his name for swooning ladies and gentlemen. Genji is the OG (original Genji).
# | 喜 | Rejoice, Delighted, Pleased | き ; よろこ | Drum + Mouth | If there is a drum in your mouth it's time to rejoice! And because of your mouth drum your rejoicing will be loud and booming! Imagine having a drum in your mouth and rejoicing about it! Imagine how loud it would be! You loudly rejoice for a while when suddenly someone runs over and shoves a key (き) in your mouth, locking it shut. You can't rejoice anymore! You need that key to unlock your mouth! Imagine if people could just stop the rejoicing of others by locking their mouths shut with keys. What a sad world.
# | 恋 | Romance, Love | れん ; こい | Red + Heart | A red heart is the symbol of romance and love. Red hearts are very romantic and giving a red heart to your sweetheart is a great way to romance them. Imagine the joy of having your crush send you a red heart. How romantic! A red heart will render (れん) you love struck with romance. Romance will render you useless in other aspects of life because all you can concentrate on is love. Imagine being dumbstruck by love and romance. It feels good to feel all the love and stuff, but you’re rendered useless in other areas of life due to your obsession with red hearts and romance stuff.
# | 悲 | Sad | ひ ; かな | Criminal + Heart | A criminal's heart will always be sad. No one chooses a life of crime if they're happy. And even if they seem like they're doing fine on the outside, deep down they're really sad. Imagine watching a criminal after he's done stealing from a bank. He's all alone. He stops throwing the money around. And cries. So so sad. The sad feelings fill the criminal's body with heat (ひ). This heat spreads and radiates out. If you walk next to them on the street, you'll feel the sad heat floating by you. Imagine being so sad that your entire body fills with heat. That heat even makes squiggly heat lines pop out above and around you.
# | 塩 | Salt | しお ; えん | Dirt + Gun + Mouth + Plate | What's that in the  dirt, a  gun? It has its  mouth wide open, almost like it's hungry. And what does one serve a hungry gun? A  plate of salt, of course! Imagine randomly finding a gun in the dirt, looking at you with its mouth wide open. So naturally, you feed it a heaping plate of salt. A perfect diet for any hungry gun. While feeding salt to this hungry gun, you laugh, "She owes (しお) me for this!" Who is she, you ask? The lady who keeps putting all these guns in the dirt and then running off! One day you'll find this lady who keeps putting all the guns in the dirt, and she'll owe you big. Until then, just keep feeding salt to those guns!
# | 席 | Seat | せき | Yurt + Towel | In a yurt you use a towel as a seat. Picture this yurt, with towels laid out as seats for everyone who visits. Something about using a towel for a seat is very sexy (せき) to you. Probably because you associate it with sexy people using towel seats on the beach. Imagine the sexiest person you've ever seen, using a towel as a seat next to you in this yurt. Maybe they're in a bathing suit. Maybe they're completely covered up. Either way, they're very sexy.
# | 側 | Side | がわ, そば ; そく | Leader + Shellfish + Knife | The leader of the shellfish has a knife in its side. It's fine though, don't worry, it's just a reminder that he won the great shellfish war back when they were trying to choose the new leader. Picture the shellfish leader in your mind and make sure to pay special attention to the knife that's sticking out of his side. It's right in the groove of his shell. Because of this knife in his side, he can't pronounce certain words correctly. The most obvious one is when he says 川 (かわ), but it comes out of the side of his mouth as がわ. Try saying かわ out the side of your mouth like the leader of the shellfish and you'll probably say がわ too. Don't stick a knife in your side though, we won't pay your medical bills when you complain to us that this mnemonic got you injured.
# | 兵 | Soldier | へい, ひょう | Axe + Ground + Fins | If you set a fish on the ground and chop its fins off with an axe, you’re probably a soldier. Only soldiers have access to axes, and you like to eat fish, but first you have to set it on the ground to chop its fins off. Imagine trying to carve a fish with an axe. Probably not an easy thing to do. If you’re a trained axe soldier, you’d probably have an easier time with it. Picture yourself chopping off fins as an expert axe soldier. Uh-oh, it looks like this axe soldier was so excited about chopping the fins off his fish that he didn't think about how he was going to cook them. The only thing nearby to light on fire is a bale of hay (へい). Well, it's not the best thing, but at least it will get these fish cooked. Imagine this soldier lighting a bale of hay on fire to cook his fish. The hay burns really fast, but it should be enough.
# | 説 | Theory | せつ ; と | Say + Guard | What do you say to a guard? Your theory about how the thing he's guarding isn't even real. Yeah, you have this whole thing figured out. You have for a while. At this point, it's only fair that you tell your theory to the guard who's wasting his time. Imagine saying your theory out loud to a guard about how what he's guarding isn't even there. Imagine how he would react. The guard listens to your theory but then he says his OWN! He thinks there are two sets (せつ) of guarded items, and he's only guarding one. According to his theory, either one could be real! His theory is more plausible, don't you think? Which theory do you believe? That there is nothing or that there are sets of things?
# | 細 | Thin, Detailed | さい ; ほそ, こま | Thread + Rice Paddy | A rice paddy that's like a thread is extremely thin, but also detailed. Imagine a rice paddy in the form of an extremely thin, but also detailed piece of thread. The size and detailing means you'd maybe be able to get one line of rice in there? Seems very inefficient. This thin rice paddy is for your cyborg (さい). You only gave your cyborg a really thin strip of human stomach, so it only needs a thin line of rice to eat. Picture the cyborg eating a really thin piece of rice. Now it's completely full! What a smart, thrifty cyborg!
# | 梅 | Ume, Japanese Plum | うめ ; ばい | Tree + Gun + Window | Aiming your gun out the window, you shoot at a tree filled with ume, Japanese plums. This is, in your opinion, the best way to harvest the plums – shooting at them out your window with a gun. Imagine picking fruit off an ume tree in this way – shooting them off the branches with your gun. Picture yourself aiming at the fruits as you hear the gunshots ring in your ears and the smell of gunpowder fills the air. You’ve probably heard of ume before, depending on your exposure to Japan, but an ume (うめ) is a Japanese plum. Imagine eating your harvest of ume. Taste the ripe fruity flesh of these Japanese plums as you stuff your gluttonous face.
# | 警 | Warn, Admonish | けい | Poem + Winter + Say | You have a poem about winter that you say to warn people against going outside. It's cold and dangerous in winter! You admonish anyone and everyone you see going out there with your scary winter poem. Imagine the things you'd warn people about. What is it about winter that's so dangerous? To make sure people listen to your warning, you threaten to take away their cake (けい). People will do anything for cake, so when you bring it up, they actually take your attempts to warn them about winter seriously. The winter cold will make you ache, Your whole body will start to shake, Don't go outside, I'll eat your cake
# | 告 | Announce | こく ; つ | Slide + Dirt + Mouth | Saying you're going to slide the dirt out of your mouth is just another way of saying you're going to announce something. All that information is the dirt, and to announce that dirt you just slide it on out of your mouth. How's that for a visual? The next time you have something important to announce, calm your nerves by imagining dirt sliding out of your mouth. It's that easy! Now that you're about to announce something important, you should maybe get it nice and smooth in your mouth so the dirt can slide out easier. So take a big gulp of Coke (こく). Coke is just like, the dirt of soda anyway, you know? Imagine drinking some coke and then making an announcement. Try not to burp while you talk.
# | 達 | Attain, Plural | たつ ; たち | Scooter + Happiness | For happiness, a scooter is the best way to attain it—plural scooters would be even better. Everyone loves a good scooter. And as they say, the path to attaining happiness is littered with plural scooters. You're zipping along in a scooter, fast as can be. Feel yourself attaining happiness as you gleefully speed down the street. If you can't attain a scooter, attaining a tattoo (たつ) of one is the next best thing. Might as well get two tattooed on because plural is always better. This is a surefire way to attain happiness. Get a tattoo. Feel the pain of the tattoo needle as you get scooters tattooed onto your body. It might hurt now, but you’ll be rewarded with great happiness later in life.
# | 焼 | Bake, Burn | や ; しょう | Fire + Gambler | In a dangerous fire, a gambler will always try to bake something before fleeing to safety. It could be his own house on fire, and the gambler would still use the free heat source to get some baking done. Maybe he's gambling that those baked goods will offset the cost of a new home… This kanji also means burn, because that's what happens when you expose something to a lot of heat. Imagine you're the gambler. Feel the heat intensify as your nostrils fill with the smell of baked goods. He used to bake for the Yankees (や). Baseball cakes, bat baguettes, that kind of thing. A career-ending kitchen injury forced him to retire. That's when he developed a gambling problem. But he still likes to bake whenever the Yankees are on TV. Imagine this guy running around baking in the fire of his home, only this time with a Yankees hat and jersey on. He doesn't bake for them anymore, but he still loves the team.
# | 借 | Borrow | しゃく ; か | Leader + Long Ago | Long ago, a great leader thought to borrow something precious from you. This leader did not return the thing he borrowed, and now he will pay. Think about what precious thing this leader borrowed from you so long ago. What was it? Think about how angry you are about not having the thing returned to you. In your rage, you decide to find this leader, take back what’s yours, and in return, borrow the leader’s life. So you found him, grabbed him, and then threw him into a dirt shack (しゃく) where you shock him and do other terrible things to him. Come up with all the terrible things you do to this great leader in his shack. He deserves to pay.
# | 弓 | Bow | きゅう ; ゆみ | Bow | The bow radical and the bow kanji are exactly the same! Make sure you know those radicals! You have a bow in one hand and in the other... a cucumber (きゅう). You're going to shoot this cucumber with this bow into the salad you're making. Many people don't know this, but this makes your cucumbers taste better. Imagine fitting a cucumber into the string of your bow. Imagine the smell of it as you draw the string back. Mm, take a quick bite, then let it loose.
# | 脳 | Brain | のう | Moon + Grass + Treasure Chest | Nestled in the light of the moon in the grass is a treasure chest that you can see with your brain. You close your eyes, and you can see the spot, but it's kept deep in your brain, and you have to use its power to find it. As you visualize the treasure chest you realize that the moon was your face, the grass your hair, and the treasure chest your brain! It was you all along! If you can unlock the secrets of your brain you'll have powers like Nostradamus (のう). Nostradamus was able to look inward at his own hidden brain treasure chest and see the future, so maybe you can be like him too. Use your brain like Nostradamus and try to see the future. You see... you see... huh, your brain is just surrounded by kanji.
# | 飴 | Candy | あめ | Eat + Machine | What do you eat like a machine? Candy! Picture your mouth opening and closing really fast and hard as candy on a conveyor belt goes sliding in. Munch, munch, munch, you're a candy machine! This candy in particular is just drops of hardened, clear sugar that looks like 雨 (あめ) drops. Picture this kanji rain as it goes into your chomping machine mouth. It tastes like sweet, sugary 雨. Yum!
# | 胸 | Chest, Breast | むね ; きょう | Moon + Prison + Treasure Chest | In a prison on the moon lies a treasure chest containing a golden chest piece. This mighty chest armor will grant you protection from nearly any attack, for it is imbued with moon magic. Imagine finding this treasure chest and donning the mighty chest armor. Feel the weight of the golden chest piece and the vast protection it grants you. Where is this chest armor from? It’s from the moon. Now how would you say that if you were Canadian? It’s from the moon, eh (むね). Right, this here chest armor is from the moon, eh. Try and remember this kanji and its reading and meaning with a Canadian accent and you’ll have no problem remembering how to read it, eh.
# | 繋 | Connect | つな ; けい | Car + Weapon + Thread | You've got a car, a weapon, and some thread lying around. So of course you decide to connect them all together. Imagine using the thread to fasten the weapon onto your car, creating some kind of monstrosity. Surely this can't be legal?! There's only one reason you've connected all this together: Tuna (つな) fishing. Obviously! Your weapon of choice is a harpoon, which is perfect for catching big tuna. We'll just have to hope your car is amphibious, or we might run into some issues. Now let's go catch some tuna!
# | 喫 | Consume | きつ ; の | Mouth + Life + Sword + Big | In your mouth you put your life on the line by putting in a sword that is big. You put it all the way down there, so you consume it. Imagine yourself doing a magic trick where you put a big sword in your mouth. You say: "Now, for my next illusion, I will consume a sword!" The "consume a sword" illusion came with a cheap magic kit (きつ) you had. It's odd that there would be a "consume a sword" trick in your magic kit. It seems so real for a kit you can buy at the store.
# | 等 | Equal | とう ; ひと, など | Bamboo + Temple | The bamboo temple is equal to all of the other non-bamboo temples. Just because it's made of bamboo doesn't make it any less special and spiritual. Picture this bamboo temple compared to some temples made of stone or wood. It's the same size, shape, and it has the same number of worshipers. It's equal in every way. The bamboo temple is also an equal distance away from the other temples in とうきょう. When you look at a map of とうきょう temples, you can measure them out and they'll all be perfectly equal. While many things in とうきょう may not be created equal, the temples are, at least.
# | 枚 | Flat Object Counter, Counter For Flat Objects | まい | Tree + Winter | In the winter, one can use a sliced up tree as a flat object counter. Since it’s winter, all the leaves have fallen off the tree, so it’s easy to cut into slats. These slats can be used as counters for flat objects, such as these slats. Imagine yourself counting these flat objects in winter. It’s super cold, but you have to count them. How many are there? While trying to count these slats of wood, a whole bunch of mice (まい) show up and start climbing all over the tree. This will not do, so you take two slats and start smashing and flattening all the mice. Now that the mice are flat too, you can also use them as a flat objects counter. Good job, mice. Now imagine yourself counting on these mice you just smashed. They’re freshly dead, so there’s not much of a stench yet, but you still feel bad about using dead mice to help you count. Imagine yourself counting on these mice as you try to hold back tears from all the murder you just did.
# | 忘 | Forget | ぼう ; わす | Death + Heart | The death of your heart will cause you to forget all of the most important things. People think memories are kept in your brain, but that's not true. Your heart is where all of your most precious memories are kept, and when it dies, you forget them all. Imagine someone close to you experiencing the death of their heart. They look right at you but they've already started to forget everything. I know this is not a fun thing to imagine, but use that emotion to help you remember this kanji, not forget it. When someone forgets everything they're left with only one thing to do: go bowling (ぼう). Bowling is easy, and there's nothing to forget. You pick up a ball. You drop it. Everything else is automatically taken care of. You know, that's probably why so many old people go bowling. They forgot everything else.
# | 苛 | Frustration | いじ, いら, さいな ; か | Flowers + Lip Ring | Using flowers to make a lip ring is always going to end in frustration. Have you ever made a daisy chain? Try making a daisy lip ring. Just imagine your frustation as you try to make it small enough to fit through your lip piercing. After some frustration, you made your flower lip ring. Now you look like an Egyptian  (いじ) pharaoh. Because all ancient Egyptian monarchs wore flower lip rings (historical fact)! Imagine yourself dressed as an ancient Egyptian pharaoh, wearing your newly-crafted flower lip ring. Think how classy (or strange) you feel.
# | 訓 | Instruction | くん ; よ | Say + River | You say stuff to a river, giving it instruction. This river is a new river so it needs you to say things, giving it instruction on what to do. Otherwise the river wouldn’t know how to behave. Imagine saying things to this river. What would you say? Flow harder! Babble better! Picture yourself shouting at the river as the water moves along. While giving instruction to the river, you see a small boat coming down it. Inside the miniature boat is a raccoon (くん) captain and his raccoon crew. The raccoon captain is instructing them, “Stroke! Stroke!” Picture this raccoon captain and his raccoon crew coming down the river. The raccoons are all chittering about as they paddle the boat down the river.
# | 種 | Kind, Type, Seed | しゅ ; たね, ぐさ | Grain + Heavy | If a grain seems extra heavy, you know it's a different kind. Not all types of grains are the same. So when you feel the heavy type, you know it isn't the same as the light kind. Imagine sorting all the different types of grains by their weight. You sort all of the different kinds and types by putting them in the right chutes (しゅ). They slide away, probably to some big type-based piles you can't see. Picture the two chutes you use to separate the different types of grains. One has a sign that says "Light Chute" and the other says "Heavy Chute."
# | 報 | News, Report | ほう ; むく | Happiness + Stamp + Stool | You want to share happiness with people so you stamp stools with the news. Now when people want a report of all the happy things going on, they can just look down before they sit. Stand up and look at the happy news today! It definitely isn't sad or depressing. You research and report the news from home (ほう). Only after, once all of the news is stamped onto the stools, do you leave your home. Because your reporting is done from home, most of the news is about how your plants are growing. What the cat did this morning. And it certainly isn't the news without the weather!
# | 句 | Paragraph | く | Paragraph | The paragraph radical and the paragraph kanji are exactly the same! Know your radicals, yo! You have to write an entire paragraph about a topic, so you choose cookies (く). Imagine actually getting an assignment to write a paragraph all about cookies. Would you write about your favorite cookies? Your eating methods?
# | 許 | Permit, Allow | きょ ; ゆる | Say + Noon | Say it at noon. That's the only time I will allow you to say it. That's the only time I will permit you to say it. Other than that, no saying anything. Noon is your window. Imagine a world where you're not allowed to say anything except for at noon. At that moment, after you've been staring at the clock, waiting for that opportunity, you burst forth with things you want to say. But, once it hits 12:01, you are grabbed and your mouth is covered. You are not permitted to say anything outside of that time. Where do these archaic horrible rules exist? The smaller version of Kyoto, Little Kyoto (きょ). Normal Kyoto is just fine. This smaller one is where a group of people went to create their own little town with their own dumb rules. Imagine going to big Kyoto where everything is fine. Then, go to little Kyoto where it's not. Little Kyoto has the short きょ (instead of the long one), and this is how you can remember the difference.
# | 可 | Possible, Passable | か | Lip Ring | With a lip ring, anything is possible. Having a lip ring grants you the power to conquer any obstacle, achieve any goal. As long as it's a passable lip ring, that is. If it isn't good enough, it isn't possible to be passable. Imagine getting a magical lip ring. First, you have to find a passable one. Then, you have to go through the pain of having your lip pierced. Is it even possible to imagine how painful that would be?! Since anything and everything is possible with your new passable lip ring, you use it to get a new car (か). You go to the car dealership and ask for a free (passable) car. The manager is impressed with your lip ring and gladly hands over the keys to the latest model of your favorite car. Not bad. It was possible to get this passable car thanks to your lip ring. Hooray!
# | 僧 | Priest, Monk | そう | Leader + Mask | A religious leader wearing a mask could be either a monk or a priest. You don’t know, their face is covered by a mask! Picture this leader in their mask. Listen to them chant prayers that reverberate throughout the building. This monk or priest is wearing a mask to protect their soul (そう). You aren't a monk or a priest, so they don't want your not-religious-enough eyes to dirty their soul. Imagine the monk/priest's bright, pure soul shining behind the mask. You'll never actually see it, unless you're becoming a monk/priest yourself, and then your soul will need protecting too.
# | 禁 | Prohibit, Prohibition | きん | Tree + Jackhammer | Killing two trees with a jackhammer is expressly prohibited. Don't get me wrong, you can rip up one tree with your jackhammer, but not two. Imagine standing in front of a forest with your jackhammer, staring at a sign with just this kanji on it. Tree plus tree with jackhammer equals prohibited. Hmm. The person who decided to prohibit jackhammering two trees is the King (きん) of England. He's the only person who's able to prohibit certain things, so it had to be him. Picture the King angrily covering his ears as his subjects jackhammer trees. He screams and shouts, his crown bouncing on his head, and points at his new sign that prohibits the jackhammering of trees.
# | 静 | Quiet | せい ; しず | Blue + Conflict | Conflict in blue water is made quiet by the muffling power of water. Under this blue water is a great conflict between two sea monsters, but on the surface it appears peaceful and quiet as the water prevents sound from rising above the surface. Imagine watching this conflict from above the blue water on a boat. You can kind of see the action, but you can't hear a thing. As you watch below the quiet water, every once in a while a saber (せい) breaches the surface and quietly slices back down. Sabers are sharp, curved, and totally quiet. Great for underwater blue conflicts, and sneaky assassinations.
# | 座 | Sit, Seat | ざ ; すわ | Canopy + Person + Dirt | There are two people under a canopy on the dirt. What are they doing? It's a thing called sitting. They're using the dirt as a seat for their butts. Did you know anyone can sit? It doesn't matter if there aren't chairs there. You shake your head. People can't just sit on dirt, you think to yourself. There must be a wizard (ざ) around here trying to trick you. You certainly aren't going to be tricked into taking a seat by this wizard. Wizards like to watch people sit. So they'll try lots of tricks to make people sit down near them. Don't let a wizard trick you. Don't ever sit down again.
# | 煙 | Smoke | えん ; けむ, けむり | Fire + Helicopter + Dirt | You have a fire going on some dirt when a helicopter flies overhead. This causes smoke from the fire and the dirt to spread everywhere! It's in your eyes, your mouth, your ears! The smoke gets in your lungs and you can't breathe. Why helicopter, why! Imagine the smoke stopping up your lungs and getting in your eyes. All you know other than the smoke is the sound of the helicopter that's causing it to happen. The smoke is too much and you realize this is the end (えん) for you. You're gonna die here! Imagine choking on the smoke and accepting that this is the end. Boohoo, if only you'd learned more kanji before the end!
# | 汽 | Steam | き | Tsunami + Energy | The water from a tsunami can create a lot of energy when made into steam. Steam power used to be all the rage back in the day. Steam comes from water, water comes from tsunamis, so logically, tsunamis are a great source of energy. Imagine how much steam a tsunami could create. Hear the steam hissing off of the water and feel the moisture from the steam washing over your body. In order to contain this steam energy and store it for later, you lock it up in a box with a key (き). That way the energy can be used at a later time. Provided you don’t lose the key, that is. Steam is very light, so carrying this box of steam energy will be no problem. Picture yourself wandering about with a box of steam in one hand and a key in the other.
# | 叩 | Tap, Strike, Slap | こう ; たた, はた | Mouth + Stamp | On your mouth is a stamp that you tap, strike and slap to create a beat! The stamp looks like a little drum, but you're really just hitting your mouth for fun (the stamp was an excuse to make it seem normal). Put a stamp on your mouth and look in your bathroom mirror. Now tap that stamp and make a fresh new beat the young kids can dance to! As you tap and strike your own mouth, こういち comes dancing into your bathroom. "Hey now, this looks fun, can I try tapping my mouth too?" he asks. "Sure," you say, and offer him a stamp. Imagine the music that you and こういち make as you tap away on your mouths.
# | 喉 | Throat | こう ; のど | Mouth + Leader + Arrow + Hook | Into your mouth the leader shot an arrow with an attached hook so that they'd be able to see into your throat. Imagine the arrow with its hook shooting down into your mouth and hooking into your throat. Ouch! Now the leader is peering down in there, but you don't know why. From your throat you hear a voice. Not yours, but one you recognize. It's こういち! What's that rascal doing down in your throat? The leader starts to tug こういち out of your throat, but he resists. "No, I like it down here, it's dark and damp." The leader gets angry and pulls harder, which hurts! This is your throat, after all, don't you get a say?!
# | 類 | Type, Category, Kind | るい ; たぐ | Rice + Big + Geoduck | A big geoduck loves to eat rice of every type, kind, and category. It doesn’t matter what kind of rice it is, this big geoduck will eat it. Picture this big geoduck shoveling rice down in a flurry of geoduckness. Hear the sloshing and goopy glugging as the geoduck gorges itself on every type of rice. While eating every type and kind of rice from every category, the big geoduck has become even bigger. Its body is ruined (るい). It’s painfully obese. This geoduck has eaten itself into ruin. Picture this big, fat geoduck, too big to move. It’s now in a wheel chair and on a rice IV. Imagine its wheelchair squeaking by as it wheezes and groans.
# | 洗 | Wash | せん ; あら | Tsunami + Previous | The previous tsunami gave everything in this town a good wash. There are many Laundromats in this town so when the previous tsunami hit, all of the detergent mixed with the water and gave everything a good wash. Imagine this soapy tsunami, washing all the things in town. Hear the soapy waves bubbling with cleanliness as they crash down around you. All the Laundromats in town are owned by centaurs (せん), and they got a good wash as well. Being half horse, centaurs have a lot of hair that needs washing. Luckily, the soap tsunami gave them a good wash too. Imagine these centaurs frolicking around in the aftermath of the previous tsunami. It’s just like a big bathtub for them. Hear them splashing and neighing in the water.
# | 禅 | Zen, Zen Buddhism | ぜん | Spirit + Simple | You want your spirit to be simple so you practice Zen Buddhism. Zen is all about meditating and letting earthly things go. There's nothing more simple for your spirit than being Zen. Try out Zen meditation for a little bit. Look away from your computer or phone or tablet and let your life be simple for a second. Just let it all go and free your spirit from all the noise. The reading for this kanji is Zen (ぜん), just like the Zen in Zen Buddhism. Pretty easy to remember, no? Just remember that the reading is the same as the meaning. It’s easy! Without a new reading to learn, you should have time to close your eyes and clear your mind. Zen it out, friend.
# | 得 | Acquire | とく ; え, う | Loiter + Sun + Temple | If you loiter around the sun temple, it's likely you'll acquire something. When you loiter around like that it looks like you're waiting for something, so if someone puts something in your hands and you just happen to acquire it, well, no one can fault you for that. Imagine loitering around near the sun temple. Maybe you acquire some illegal goods, maybe you just acquire a tan (it is a SUN temple, after all). You managed to acquire some tobacco, but just as you're about to leave Tokugawa (とく) Ieyasu comes marching up to you!! Or at least, his ghost does. He stares you dead in the eyes and says, "I didn't found the shogunate for you to acquire illegal goods and kill your body toking on my soil." Your eyes fill with tears under Tokugawa's gaze and you drop everything you acquired to the ground. You bow before him apologizing. You'll never do this again!
# | 加 | Add | か ; くわ | Power + Mouth | Your mouth has the power to add words together to form a sentence. Marvel at the massive and mighty power your mouth holds! You add words together in an amazing fashion! Say this sentence out loud. Incredible! You’ve used the power of your mouth to add words together in a sentence. Your parents must be very proud of you. Your parents are so proud of you for using your powerful mouth to add words together that they decide to surprise you with a gift. It’s a new car (か). It’s that shiny brand new car that you’d always wanted. You’re speechless. However, your speechlessness frustrates your parents so they decide to take away the car they just gave you. Boo hoo. Imagine how awful it would be to have a new car given to you only to have it taken away immediately after. Feel this rollercoaster of emotion as you are joyful and excited, then sad and sorrowful.
# | 冊 | Book Counter, Counter For Books | さつ | Bookshelf | You use a bookshelf as a book counter. Duh. What are you gonna count them one by one? Okay, well maybe, but you should count them while they're nice and organized and on shelves. Otherwise counting is going to be a huge pain. Imagine counting books on a bunch of bookshelves. One book, two book, red book, blue book! While you were counting books using this book counter method, you got a bit tired and sat (さつ) down. But lucky for you, your books counter is a bookshelf, so just because you sat down doesn't mean you have to stop counting books. You sat down, but the books can't stop you from counting them.
# | 埋 | Bury | う, うず ; まい | Dirt + Village | The dirt next to your village is where you bury the dead. People don't live forever, so every village has a patch of dirt specifically used for burying dead things. Imagine the village where you grew up. Can you see the dirt area where all your ancestors were buried? You don't just bury dead relatives here. You also buried your dead pet uni (う) in that dirt. You thought having an uni as a pet would be a good idea. Too bad uni need water to survive. Imagine crying as you bury your pet uni. Your tears can't save it now. (Though it is a bit ironic, since it needed salt water.)
# | 忙 | Busy | ぼう ; いそが | Soul + Death | You'll work your soul to death if you're too busy. Being busy just isn't good for your soul. Take breaks. Go on vacation. Don't be so busy that you destroy yourself. Look around you. See all those busy people? Their souls are dying. Don't end up like them. Take time out of your busy life and go bowling (ぼう) once in a while. In fact, you should probably go bowling once a week at least. Nothing brings energy back to your life like some relaxing bowling. Think about your busy schedule this week. Now cancel everything and just go bowling instead.
# | 閥 | Clique, Clan | ばつ | Gate + Leader + Drunkard | Passed out in front of the gate lies a drunkard who used to be the leader of a popular clique, the Cool Kids Clan. Once, he was a leader, but now he is but a drunkard. The clan has fallen apart, and he no longer has a clique to call his own. Imagine this washed up drunkard leader passed out in front of the gate to your house. You have to pass him whenever you enter or exit your house. He’s gross and he smells. Experience the stench in your nostrils. How he was ever the leader of a clan you have no idea. Eventually you get sick and tired of this washed up clan leader and you gather your own clique to chase this guy away from your gate and your property. You and your friends grab some bats (ばつ) and use these bats to beat the drunkard leader. Being beaten with bats frightens him, and he scurries away. Hear the crushing blows of bats against flesh as you imagine this scene in your mind. You’re beating the crap out of this guy with a bunch of bats, but hey – he had it coming.
# | 布 | Cloth | ふ ; ぬの | Narwhal + Towel | To a narwhal, a towel is just normal cloth. They're always wet so towel cloth is all they know. Picture a narwhal wrapped in a fuzzy towel blanket, with a towel tail cover, and some towel underpants. Everything is made of this type of cloth. If you use this type of cloth for your clothes and blankets people will call you a fool (ふ). They think you're a fool who can't tell the difference between human cloth and towel cloth. "You fool, you aren't a narwhal, that cloth isn't for you!" they say. They're so mean.
# | 歴 | Continuation | れき ; へ | Cliff + Tree + Stop | You stop at a cliff with a tree on it, realizing that continuation is impossible unless you find some way to bridge the gap to the other side of the cliff. The tree seems long enough to reach to the other side, but how are you going to chop it down? Imagine yourself on this cliff. You desire a continuation for your journey, not wanting to stop here. Feel the strong wind on your body, blowing your hair about as you stand on the edge of the cliff. The leaves on the tree rustle in the breeze. Continuation is impossible unless you chop this tree down to use as a bridge to cross to the other side of the cliff. You decide to use a wrecking (れき) ball. Luckily, there’s one right by you. So you take the wrecking ball and knock the tree over, making a bridge with it. Picture yourself using the wrecking ball to knock down the tree on the cliff. Hear the chug of the wrecking ball engine as the tree cracks and splinters from the force of the wrecking ball.
# | 続 | Continue | ぞく ; つづ | Thread + Sell | You have to sell thread if you want to continue to live. You want to make a living don’t you? Make sure you continue to sell that thread every single day! Imagine selling thread so you can continue living your life. You have to continue to sell that thread because a Bosozoku (ぞく) bike gang is forcing you to do it. You see? If you want to continue to live, you have to appease this Bosozoku gang. You better keep selling! Continue selling thread and paying off the Bosozoku. It’s the only way you can continue to survive!
# | 減 | Decrease | げん ; へ | Tsunami + Slide + Drunkard + Creeper | There's a tsunami coming, but the escape slide is being blocked by a drunkard and creeper, and you can see your chances of escaping decrease rapidly. Imagine how you feel as you try to get down the tsunami slide, past the drunkard and the creeper, who are decreasing your chances of getting away. This decrease in the chances of escaping the tsunami is really upsetting Genji (げん), who's waiting impatiently behind you. Picture Genji, as his chances of survival decrease along with yours. Poor Genji.
# | 易 | Easy | い, えき ; やさ | Easy | The easy radical and the easy kanji are the same! Easy is easy! What would be an easy reading for this kanji? い! The sound easy starts with! I told you easy was easy.
# | 絡 | Entangle, Coil Around, Entwine | らく ; から | Thread + Kiss | If you put a thread in the middle of a kiss, you’re going to entangle it. Things can get pretty messy in a kiss, so adding a thread to the mix will definitely entangle it. Imagine trying to kiss someone with a piece of thread between your lips. Feel the thread getting all entangled between the two of you as you lock lips. It’s really detracting from the experience. This is your first kiss ever so getting a thread to entangle between your lips was really bad luck (らく). The person you were trying to kiss got really grossed out by the thread and tried to push you away but was so entangled with the thread that they were unable. Bad luck indeed. Picture yourself being tied to someone by the tongue with thread. You can’t escape, and you can’t believe your bad luck. Feel the thread tugging on your tongue as you try to get yourself untangled.
# | 笛 | Flute | てき ; ふえ | Bamboo + Reason | Is there a reason you're in the bamboo grove? Why yes there is. It's so you can get yourself some bamboo and make a flute out of it. Imagine yourself cutting down some bamboo, thinking "this is the reason I'm here, I need a flute, asap!" There is no other reason to be here besides this. You cut down the bamboo and whittle a flute. You start playing a song. You know the reason why. An alien spacecraft comes flying down and drops a box full of alien tech (てき) in front of you. You've done what you came to do. You summoned an alien craft with your bamboo flute, gaining some alien tech in the process. Open up the box to see what tech awaits you.
# | 履 | Footwear | り ; は | Flag + Loiter + Black Hole | A flag loiters in a black hole. This flag marks (in the black hole) where you left your footwear. If you look into the black hole, you can see your footwear right there, marked with the flag. You grab your footwear from the black hole. In your footwear (thanks to the shelter they provided), some reeds (り) have grown in! It's amazing that these cute little reeds could grow in your footwear in the middle of a black hole. As a great philosopher once said, life finds a way.
# | 容 | Form, Appearance | よう ; い | Roof + Valley | If you put a roof over a valley it will change its form. Its appearance will alter completely! Picture a valley in your mind. Now put a roof on it. Hmm. It isn't shaped like a valley anymore. Its new appearance looks familiar to you, like it's a big yogurt (よう) cup! A valley with a roof on it looks exactly like a yogurt cup. Huh! Now imagine this taking shape before your eyes and becoming actual yogurt! You grab a giant spoon and take a bite.
# | 団 | Group | だん, とん | Mouth + Measurement | Use your mouth to take a measurement of this group. Just stretch your mouth out and around every single person. Get 'em all in there. I hope this group is full of people who enjoy being inside someone else's mouth, because they're gonna be pretty mad when you let them out if they aren't. This group is so big it takes you till dawn (だん) to get your measurement: they weigh a ton (とん) too! Imagine letting this group of, now very wet, people out of your mouth one by one. They don't seem to care that they weigh a ton! That's a large measurement, they should be proud.
# | 史 | History | し | History | The history radical and the history kanji are the same. Know your radicals, yo! History was full of famous sheep (し). Sure there are people and stuff, but historical sheep are where it's at. There's the famous sheep samurai, the death sheep who works for the yakuza, just tons! Look at a history book, behind each of those humans was a sheep, changing the world as we know it.
# | 昆 | Insect | こん | Sun + Compare | If the sun is compared to an insect, you’ll see that they're both shiny, but that the sun is much shinier than the insect. Imagine holding up an insect to the sun to compare the two. See how they both shine, but the sun shines more brightly than the insect. While you’re holding up an insect to the sun for comparison, a flock of condors (こん) flies by, blocking out the sun. There are so many condors that they manage to totally block out the sun. Feel how dark and cold it is suddenly with all those condors blocking out the sun.
# | 徒 | Junior, Follower | と | Loiter + Run | “Don’t loiter – run, Junior!” said Indiana Jones Senior to Indiana Jones Junior. They’re escaping from a sticky situation and Junior was just loitering around like a fool. It’s no time to loiter, it’s time to run! Imagine Sean Connery saying “Don’t loiter – run, Junior!” and you should have a much easier time remembering this phrase if you remember it in his voice. Deciding not to loiter any longer, Indiana Jones Junior takes his dad’s advice and starts to run. Unfortunately he wasn’t paying attention to where his feet were and he stubbed his toe (と) on a jagged rock. His toe is in so much pain that he can’t bear to run any longer. Imagine that you are Indiana Jones Junior and this is happening to you. Feel the terrible pain of your throbbing toe as you clutch it, with the bad guys catching up with you.
# | 宙 | Midair | ちゅう | Roof + Reason | You jumped off your roof for some reason and now you're floating in midair! You kick your legs a bit and move your arms like you're in water, but you're still just stuck there in midair. At the moment you can't remember the reason you did it, but when you jumped off your roof you just floated in midair. As you spin a bit in midair you look up and see Chewbacca (ちゅう) looking down at you from a spaceship. He's laughing his Chewbacca laugh and you realize he has you trapped in his tractor beam. Oh Chewbacca, you lovable fuzzball. You better not drop me in midair, or I'll die. I hope you bring me up there!
# | 混 | Mix | こん ; ま, こ | Tsunami + Sun + Compare | Compare the sun with a tsunami – these two things don’t mix. If a tsunami is coming, it will likely get in the way of the sun. Imagine the sun getting blocked out as a tsunami rises up from the ocean. Feel the cold fear of death on you as the tsunami approaches. That tsunami is gonna mix you up. Just before the tsunami crashes over you, a condor (こん) swoops out of the sky and grabs you up. This condor must be a mix – a normal condor is not strong enough to pick up a human. The condor must be mixed with something else. Like a pterodactyl. Imagine yourself getting mixed up in this situation and the pterodactyl sized condor picking you up. Feel the condor’s talons digging into your shoulders as it grabs you up and flies you towards the sun.
# | 善 | Morally Good, Good | ぜん | Sheep + Horns + Ground + Mouth | A sheep loses its horns on the ground so it picks them up in its mouth to take them to someone who's morally good enough to attach them back onto its head. Sheep don’t have hands, so the sheep had to pick the horns up off the ground with his mouth. Someone evil would just murder the sheep and steal his horns, so the sheep must find someone good to reaffix them. Imagine yourself as the good person being approached by this forlorn sheep without horns. Hear the clack of the horns together as the sheep drops them out of his mouth onto the ground and lets out a pathetic bleat. “Baa~aa~ah~” Since you are morally good, you decide not to murder the sheep and harvest its organs. Instead, as a practitioner of the good teachings of Zen (ぜん) Buddhism, you decided to help the sheep out. Your Zen teachings have increased the power of your healing abilities, so you fix the sheep up in no time. Imagine yourself using your Zen magic to heal this sheep. Place your hands on the sheep’s horns and imagine returning them to their rightful location on the sheep’s head. Feel the soft wool of the sheep as he bleats in happiness.
# | 順 | Order, Sequence | じゅん | River + Geoduck | For a geoduck to make it into a river, it must know the sequence and order of water flow. Geoducks usually live in the ocean, not in a river, so they must study the order of water flow in order to determine the best sequence for making it into a river. Imagine this geoduck mapping out a plan to get to the river. It’s studying the sequence and order of water flow. See it sitting there, reading a book, reading glasses and all. It’s quite odd. After extensive study of the sequence and order of water, the geoduck has determined that June (じゅん) is the best time to travel to the river. June is the best time for the temperature and atmospheric pressure to be just right for such a journey. In June, the geoduck will set out. June has arrived. Imagine the geoduck making its way from the ocean to the river. Use whatever makes you think of June to link that month to this scene of the geoduck making his way to the river.
# | 宇 | Outer Space | う | Roof + Dry | You use a roof to keep yourself dry and safe from outer space. Look outside, above your roof, and you'll see outer space stretching above you. You don't want to float up into outer space and get all wet, do you? No? Then you better make sure you have a roof above your head. Why isn't it dry in outer space, you ask? Because of all the uni (う) swimming around up there. They have nasty, wet, pointy spikes and they're all over the place. Look closely up at outer space and you'll see all of the uni floating around up there. They're really dark, so it can be hard to notice them, but I promise you, they're there.
# | 詞 | Part Of Speech, Speech Particle, Particle Of Speech, Grammar Particle | し | Say + Director | What you say to the director is judged immediately. You're having trouble understanding this part of speech, so he's trying to help you. But you say it over and over and he keeps saying you're wrong. "Is it an adjective?" "No, that's the wrong part of speech." "Is it a verb?" "N-no! Of course not!" The director asks you again, "What is the part of speech for the word sheep (し)?" You stare blankly at him. What part of speech is that?! It's an animal, you know that. Oh! A noun. Duh.
# | 芋 | Potato | いも | Flowers + Dry | If you see some dry flowers, pull them up and you'll find a potato. Potatoes grow when flowers dry out. All the nutrients are going to the potato under the ground, so the flowers up top get sucked dry. Potatoes are totally emo (いも) because of the way they dry out flowers. Emo people and potatoes both like to dry out flowers. Picture an emo person sitting alone in a dark room, staring at a potato. "You and I are the same."
# | 改 | Renew | かい ; あらた | Oneself + Winter | It's important to focus oneself in winter so that one can emerge renewed! You can't really go outside in winter without getting cold or sick, so spend winter focusing on YOU. Imagine sitting in your house all winter, meditating and thinking about how you can renew yourself. Winter ends and, renewed, you come out ready to start a new hobby: kayaking (かい)! Nothing says renewal like a brand new kayak and sense of purpose in life. Imagine being back in your house in winter. You're thinking about all the kayaking you're gonna do when winter ends. You're even making the movements with your arms, so you'll be a really renewed you.
# | 乱 | Riot, Disorder | らん ; みだ | Tongue + Umbrella | If you stab somebody in the tongue with an umbrella, it’s sure to start a riot and cause disorder. Nobody likes to get stabbed in the tongue with an umbrella, so they’re probably going to retaliate, and before you know it, you’ve a full scale riot on your hands. Look what you’ve done. Imagine yourself getting stabbed in the tongue with an umbrella. It’s very painful. Taste the blood and metal in your mouth as this happens to you. Just now you realize that the man you stabbed in the tongue with your umbrella was none other than Macho Man Randy Savage (らん). Being a professional wrestler, Macho Man Randy Savage is ready to throw down at a moment’s notice. A riot immediately erupts. It’s a battle royal with you and Randy at the epicenter. Picture yourself squaring off with Macho Man Randy Savage in the middle of this riot. You have the advantage of having an umbrella, but Randy has the advantage of being himself. Picture yourself getting into a fight with him.
# | 節 | Season, Joint | せつ ; ふし | Bamboo + Root + Stamp | On the bottom of bamboo roots, there’s a stamp that tells you the season in which it was cut. Additionally, the stamp also has information on the condition of the bamboo’s joints, because no one wants to buy bamboo with damaged joints! Picture yourself in a store, looking at a bunch of different bamboo stamps to make sure you don’t buy one that’s out of season, or one that has damaged joints. The season and the joints, that’s what quality bamboo is all about, and it’s why we have these stamps! These season stamps are marked on bamboo sets (せつ). You can't buy a single banana or a single grape, and just like that, if you want some nice seasonal bamboo, you have to buy them in sets. How many bamboo sets will you be buying this season? I'm getting 42 sets.
# | 連 | Take Along, Connect | れん ; つ, つら | Scooter + Car | Both a scooter and a car are things you'll take along with you. If you want to take both along, you should connect them to each other to make it easier. You can't decide which one you want, so you take along both. Good job they're connected! You take along the things you need. Anything else, you can do a rental (れん) for. You remembered your scooter and your car, but you forgot something else! You go to the rental shop and do a rental for that item.
# | 舌 | Tongue | した ; ぜつ | Tongue | The tongue radical and the tongue kanji are exactly the same! Yee-haw!  You’re sound asleep in bed when your tongue drops out of your mouth and you start to drool, getting saliva all over the bed sheet (した). You wake up with a soggy patch of sheet near your mouth and wipe the drool off your face. Your significant other sees the whole thing. Your significant other had been watching you sleep with your tongue out for a while now, so you're super embarrassed you wet the sheets with your nasty tongue drool. You feel very judged and embarrassed.
# | 暴 | Violence | ぼう, ばく ; あば | Sun + Together + Water | When the sun gets together with water, only violence can ensue. They don’t mix well together. The sun loves to fight water and water loves to fight the sun. Lots and lots of violence. Picture this violent fight scene in your brain. Imagine water locked in battle with the sun as the sun’s fire flares up and the water starts to sizzle. But after a while, the sun and the water have had enough of violence. They decide to settle their differences with a friendly game of bowling (ぼう). Bowling is a great way to relieve stress and in the end, they bond over it. Imagine the sun and the water trying to bowl. Hear the sound of bowling balls rolling down the lane and pins rattling around and crashing together.
# | 財 | Wealth | さい, ざい | Shellfish + Talent | Give some shellfish to a talented person and they'll have no problem accumulating wealth. People with talent can make money out of pretty much anything, so shellfish are like easy-mode. Picture the talented person huddled over a pile of shellfish, whispering to them about the wealth they'll soon be turned into. This talented person really starts accumulating wealth when their cyborg (さい) is unveiled. It's a half-man, half-shellfish cyborg that plays the xylophone , and everyone wants to buy it. You'd be wealthy too if you sold that cyborg you made. It may not have any shellfish in it and it can't play the xylophone, but you could change that…
# | 若 | Young | わか, も ; じゃく | Flowers + Right | There are flowers on your right to show that you're still young. Your body still works, you're happy, you have your entire life ahead of you! And everything smells like flowers. Look to your right, if you see flowers (metaphorically, maybe) then you're still young. Congratulations! When young people look to the right, they'll see their future: a walker (わか). You know, those metal contraptions with tennis balls on the bottoms to make sure they don't scrape the floor. Everything may be flowers and happiness now, but your future is in a walker. All young people have a walker looming just off to the side. A sign that your youth won't last forever, dear summer child.
# | 裕 | Abundant, Wealthy | ゆう | Spirit + Valley | In spirit valley, spirits are abundant. Hence the name. Spirit valley has over two billion spirits floating in it. Just picture those forest spirits from that famous anime film. The woods are full of them. An abundant valley of spirits. In spirit valley, it's not just spirits that are abundant. There is an abundance of youths (ゆう) as well. Imagine an abundant number of spirits and youths hanging out, drinking microbrews and eating avocado toast. Spirit Valley is a weird place.
# | 尻 | Butt, Buttocks | しり | Flag + Nine | You have nine flags. With these nine flags you take them one by one and put them up your butt. Imagine taking these nine flags... count 'em... and putting them up your butt. With each one that's up there it gets harder and harder to fit the next one in. Now that you have nine flags inside your butt, you have to get them out. But, you don't know how to. So you ask Siri (しり), "how do I get nine flags out of my butt?" In your head, doing the Siri voice, come up with an answer for your nine flags in the butt predicament.
# | 確 | Certain | かく ; たし | Stone + Forehead + Turkey | You take a stone to the forehead of a turkey. It is certain that you will damage it. Try hitting a sponge on a turkey's forehead. Not certain. Now a stone. Certain. You're killing this turkey, and you need to make sure he's dead for certain. The reason you need to make sure this turkey is dead is because of the cock (かく) in your life. Male chickens get really jealous when turkeys are around. As you smash the stone into the turkey's forehead, yell out "This is for you, my cock! THIS IS FOR YOU!" Your cock lover watches from the shadows.
# | 械 | Contraption | かい ; かせ | Tree + Drunkard + Twenty | Under a tree a drunkard sits with twenty little contraptions. There's little electronic ones, little bopping ones, little walking ones... twenty of them. Can you even imagine twenty completely unique contraptions? Why don't you try, just for fun. You want to know what these contraptions are for, so you ask. The drunkard says, "These are kayak (かい) contraptions *urp* they're for your uh *blarp* kayak... things." "Kayak contraptions" is pretty vague, but you do have a kayak, so you're tempted anyway. If only you could figure out what each contraption did so you could justify buying some.
# | 犯 | Crime | はん ; おか | Animal + Snake | In the animal kingdom, a snake is the most likely to commit a crime. Remember the Garden of Eden? The snake was the bad guy. Ever since then, snakes are the animal most known for committing crimes. Picture a snake as a hardened criminal. See this snake with many prison tattoos and muscles from working out in his jail cell. Hear the snake hissing as it slithers about to commit yet another crime. This snake has evaded the law for too long. It’s time for a true hero to put an end to its crime spree. Enter Han (はん) Solo. Han Solo is the only man strong and brave enough to put an end to this snake and his crime filled ways. Now see Han Solo doing battle with the snake (cue Star Wars music). The snake hisses and lunges at Han, but Han shoots the snake and it’s incapacitated. Smell the smell of scorched snake flesh in your nose.
# | 害 | Damage, Injury, Harm | がい | Roof + Life + Mouth | You slip off the roof, your life flashes before your eyes, and you smash your mouth on the ground causing some serious damage. Oof, this is a really bad injury, you fell all the way off the roof and onto your mouth. Imagine that moment as you fall off the roof. In slow motion you can see the roof moving away, you see yourself as a little kid, a teen, an adult, then BAM you've injured your mouth. Ow ow ow! As you try to assess the damage, you hear someone shout, "Guy (がい), hey, you okay, guy?" They run up to you, but your mouth is too damaged, you can't respond. "Okay guy, I'm gonna call you Guy now. Let's get you to the hospital." No matter how much you try to wave your hands and gesture, they keep calling you Guy. It's really annoying, actually, because you aren't a guy and you aren't Guy either. But your mouth is too damaged for you to tell him.
# | 議 | Deliberation, Discussion | ぎ | Say + Righteousness | What you say is righteousness, at least that's what you believe. You keep talking and saying these things, and you don't listen to anyone else's words. This is your style of deliberation and discussion. Picture yourself in a deliberation with some other people. They think what they're saying is right, and it drives you mad. Then you realize that you're doing the same thing. What are you in deliberation about? Whether or not to send some poor soul to the guillotine (ぎ). "I think he should go," you say. "I don't think he should," says another. This deliberation is going nowhere... Imagine how the deliberation concludes. Then, at the end, someone says "This deliberation is over! We have decided to _________" (in regards to the guillotine).
# | 難 | Difficult | なん ; むずか | Chinese + Turkey | A Chinese turkey is difficult to find because they are so rare. Chinese turkeys are the rarest variety of turkey, so naturally, finding one is exceedingly difficult. Try and picture a Chinese turkey in your brain. Now imagine yourself trying to catch it, but you just can’t. It’s too difficult. The Chinese turkey is too elusive. Do you know the actual reason Chinese turkeys are so difficult to find? Do you know how many Chinese turkeys there are in the world? None (なん). They don’t exist. How many Chinese turkeys are there? None. So this is why you had such a difficult time finding and catching one – there were none to be caught. Imagine the sadness you felt when you realized that there were no Chinese turkeys to catch and that none exist in this world.
# | 災 | Disaster | さい ; わざわ | Flood + Fire | A flood and a fire! At the same time? This is a disaster! Imagine a disaster so bad that there are floods AND fires. That's too much! This disaster was caused by your cyborg (さい)! It's malfunctioning, running around leaking large amounts of water and breathing fire. I guess you didn't work out all the kinks before you let it roam wild. You better figure out a way to stop your cyborg from causing more disasters like this. Fix it now, or you're gonna be in big trouble.
# | 嫌 | Dislike | けん, げん ; いや, きら | Woman + Mona Lisa | When a woman sees the Mona Lisa, she feels a strong feeling of dislike. All women dislike the Mona Lisa because of how much attention she gets. Imagine yourself feeling this strong dislike towards the Mona Lisa. She gets all the attention and you get none. It’s not fair and you’re upset. You dislike the Mona Lisa so much you hire Ken (けん) the samurai to cut her up. Ken walks slowly toward the Mona Lisa, dislike shines in his eyes, but then! He falls for her too. No! Ken, destroy her!
# | 困 | Distressed, Troubled | こん ; こま | Mouth + Tree | If you put your mouth on a tree and try to eat it, you’re probably a distressed and troubled individual (unless you’re a woodchuck). You don’t need to eat this tree, you have plenty of food at home. Get your mouth off that tree you distressed child. Imagine yourself as this distressed and troubled person. Taste the taste of sap and bark in your mouth as you nom on the tree with all your might. You thought you were the most distressed and troubled person in this situation, but then you look up and see a very equally distressed and troubled condor (こん). The tree you've been mouthing is its home. And now you've slobbered all over it, ruining this condor's day. Picture a very distressed condor watching you munch your mouth all over its tree house. You've made a condor enemy this day.
# | 夢 | Dream | む ; ゆめ | Flowers + Net + Forehead + Evening | A flowers net is upon your forehead in the evening. These appear on your head at night whenever you are having a dream. Watch yourself sleeping. Then, a net of flowers appear on your forehead as you start to dream. You dream about cows saying "moo (む), moo, moo!" While still dreaming, you say "moo" out loud too. "Moooo!"
# | 震 | Earthquake, Quake, Shake | しん ; ふる | Rain + Landslide | Rain causes a landslide that causes an earthquake!!! The earth doesn't just slide, it shakes and quakes. Picture this happening in real time. First it starts to rain really hard, then the ground starts to shift and run, then everything is shaking and quaking so violently it's an earthquake! The earthquake shakes you so violently that you fall over, banging your shin (しん) on the coffee table. The edge of the coffee table is very sharp, so it cuts into your shin pretty badly. You grab your shin, but the earthquake shakes the coffee table toward you to hit your shin yet again! Ow ow ow stop!
# | 在 | Exist | ざい | Narwhal + Stick + Dirt | A narwhal sticks a stick into the dirt to see what might exist underneath it. Narwhals live in the sea, you see. So they're convinced nothing can exist anywhere else. Imagine seeing a narwhal sticking a stick, and maybe even its horn too, into the dirt on land. It needs to know if life exists outside of the ocean for sure. The narwhal can't find anything but it can't stop thinking about what could exist outside of its world. It pulls out a xylophone (ざい) and starts tapping the keys with its horn. It plays a sad song about the meaning of life and whether existence is worth it. Hear the plinky plink of the xylophone and think about what exists in this world. It's a sad song, you realize.
# | 飛 | Fly | ひ ; と | Fly | The fly radical and the fly kanji are exactly the same! Awesome!  When you fly, you generate a lot of heat (ひ) because you’re moving so fast through the atmosphere. Normally this heat would be a nuisance, but you’re a superhero so it doesn’t bother you. This is actually the reason you’re able to fly – you’re a superhero and super resistant to heat. You’re flying through the air super fast. Feel the air rushing past you as heat builds up all over your body from rocketing through the air so fast.
# | 産 | Give Birth, Property | さん ; う | Stand + Cliff + Life | You stand on the Cliff of Life and give birth to a child. Oh no! You’re standing too close to the edge of the Cliff of Life! The baby falls off the cliff right after you give birth to it! In your despair, you throw all your property off the cliff too. The baby is falling off the cliff! Imagine the sheer terror you feel as the baby plummets towards the ground below. You give birth, and now this happens. Such bad luck. But wait! What's that sound? Sleigh bells? Could it be?! It's Santa-san (さん)! He caught your baby! And all your property. Oh Santa-san. You're always here for me when I need you most. You can keep all my property and give it away as presents.
# | 罪 | Guilt | ざい ; つみ | Net + Criminal | Put a net around a criminal to show their guilt. Criminals look like anyone else on the street, so you decide to tie them in nets to make sure people know who they're dealing with. Imagine throwing a net around someone you think, no, you know is guilty of doing something bad to you. It feels pretty nice. The guilt shows on the criminal's face. They smile, shrug, and pull a stolen xylophone (ざい) out of their back pocket. Woah! The xylophone is huge, how did they... well whatever, you definitely have proof that they're guilty now and the cops should be here any minute to take your criminal catch.
# | 被 | Incur | ひ ; かぶ | Spirit + Skin | A spirit loses its skin as a part of the damages it incurs after death. Some spirits get mad when they lose their skin, and this makes them incur their wrath on the living humans that still have skin. When you incur the wrath of an angry spirit, you'll feel your skin heat (ひ) up. It feels like your skin is cooking! You're turning red. The spirit is trying to incur the same type of skin damage it had done to it by super-heating your skin! Oww owww!
# | 個 | Individual | こ | Leader + Mouth + Old | The leader with the old mouth is the one who has said many things. That makes them different from everyone, an individual. Imagine that leader's old mouth saying things that make the old man stand apart from the others. They are individual from everyone else. As an individual, one must teach all the 子s (こ) their way. Their individual way. "You must be your own individual. Don't be a sheeple," he says to the 子s.
# | 機 | Machine | き ; はた | Tree + Poop + Drunkard + Person | A drunkard is the kind of person who would poop two times under a tree before using a machine toilet. There’s a perfectly good outhouse with a machine toilet right there, but this drunkard is so drunk that he decides to poop under the tree instead. And not only does he poop once, he poops twice. Imagine this drunkard, squatting down under the tree to poop. You can smell the poop and a faint stench of alcohol in the air. How could he not have realized that there was a portable machine toilet right there? Oh, I see – the door to the outhouse with the machine toilet is locked, and the drunkard doesn’t have the key (き). If he had a machine like a jackhammer, or a circular saw, or some other heavy duty machine, he might be able to get in without a key, but since he has none of those or a key, he’s reduced to pooping under the tree instead. Listen to the drunkard grumbling about the lack of a key as he poops under the tree. He doesn’t sound happy, and every time he stresses to push out the poop, his voice fluctuates. Imagine hearing this in your mind and being a wee bit disgusted.
# | 倒 | Overthrow, Collapse | とう ; たお | Leader + Mole + Knife | Someone stabbed the leader mole with a knife to overthrow it. Now there is a new mole leader. Because that's what happens when you overthrow someone—someone else needs to take over. In this case, a vengeful mole. Imagine a mole sneaking up behind the leader mole and stabbing him with a knife. This type of overthrowing of leadership feels familiar to you. Maybe this has happened before in the past? Where do leaders get overthrown the most? In とうきょう. Just think back in Japanese history, back when everyone was at war with one another. People were taking over and getting overthrown and then that guy gets overthrown and then THAT guy gets overthrown. Basically, it used to be hard to stay a leader in とうきょう. Picture this like an exaggerated reenactment on the History channel. Leader after leader of とうきょう gets overthrown and replaced with the next guy. It never stops. (Until the end of the Edo period, I guess.)
# | 経 | Passage of Time, Pass Through, Manage | けい ; た, へ | Thread + Tombstone | Tying a thread to a tombstone each year will help you manage the passage of time. That way you’ll know how many years you pass through, since you’ll have one thread for each year to count. Picture yourself coming back to the same tombstone each passing year and tying a new thread to it. You're trying to manage these feelings by keeping track of how much time passes. Dealing with the passage of time can be tough, so after you tie the thread to the tombstone, each year you eat a piece of cake (けい). You already eat cake to mark the passage of time on your birthday, so why not here as well? Maybe this is your future tombstone, and eating cake each year is a preemptive celebration of your death day! Ooh, what a spooky theory.
# | 率 | Percent, Percentage | りつ, そつ ; ひき | Lid + Poop + Explosion + Cross | Sitting on the lid of a toilet, you're praying your poop explosion will be flushed away, beseeching the cross decorating the bathroom wall. The poop needs to be one hundred percent flushed away because you're on a date, and you don't want even one percent of your explosion left for them to see. You take a peek under the lid to check, and your poop explosion is one hundred percent gone! Phew! It was extra important that there was zero percent poop left, because you're not on a date just anywhere, you're at the Ritz (りつ)! Look around you at the classy surroundings of the Ritz Hotel bathroom. You feel one hundred percent relieved now, and ready to enjoy your date at the Ritz!
# | 圧 | Pressure | あつ | Cliff + Dirt | The dirt under a cliff is going to be under a lot of pressure. Imagine being down there with all that dirt. Imagine feeling the pressure closing in around you. It's so hard to breathe... h... help! The dirt being crushed under this pressure can't help but react by sneezing out, "Achoo (あつ)!" This sneeze-inducing pressure probably has something to do with where earthquakes come from. Imagine you're the dirt being pressed from every direction, the pressure so strong, and it squeezes an ACHOO right out of you.
# | 防 | Prevent, Prevention | ぼう ; ふせ | Building + Direction | If there is a building in the direction you want to go it will prevent you from going any further. Like, come on kid, you think you can just walk right through a building? Don't make me laugh! There's a building right there. Try to go that direction. Oh, did the building prevent you? Told you so. The building is preventing you from going the right direction, so you pull a bowling (ぼう) ball out of your bag, aim, and bowl the building over. The building, and all the ones around it, go tumbling down. But now the rubble is preventing you from going further. Your bowling antics are now preventing a bunch of people from going the directions they want to go. Nice job.
# | 刺 | Stab | さ ; し | Tree + Head + Knife | You hit your head on a tree and a knife falls out and stabs you. Ow! What the heck?! What was a knife doing in that tree? Imagine the pain and confusion of being stabbed by a violent tree. You hit your head on the tree again, as if to test it, and again a knife falls out and stabs you. Oh, so it's a stabbing tree, is it? That does it! There's nothing more dangerous than a tree that likes to stab, so you get your saw (さ) and start to saw it down. Trees that stab get sawed! Feel the grain of the saw's wooden handle in your bare hand. As the saw bites into tree bark, a retaliatory rain of knives comes stabbing down around you. But you don't even flinch. You will saw this stabbing tree down.
# | 臭 | Stinking, Stinky, Smelly | くさ, にお ; しゅう | Self + Big | Wash yourself with a big bar of soap if you're stinking everything up. Seriously. If you or someone else is stinking to high heaven, embrace a big bar of self care. You're stinking up the room because you spent your day rolling in 草 (くさ). And based on this particular stench, I'd say an animal left something in that 草 too... Imagine trying to use a big bar of soap on yourself to get the stinky 草 off. But it's not working... the 草 stink is SO STRONG!
# | 余 | Surplus, Excess | よ ; あま | Hat + Jackhammer | Regardless of whether or not you wear a hat while you jackhammer, you’re going to have a surplus of noise. Jackhammers are loud, and your hat is doing nothing to dampen the racket. There’s a surplus of commotion coming from the jackhammer and onlookers are not amused. The hat you’re wearing is ridiculous, giving you a surplus of bad style. Imagine a bunch of people scowling at you, not only because of your crazy hat, but because of the annoying sound of the jackhammer. Hear the obnoxious noise around you as the jackhammer rattles your bones. One of the people walking by is the owner of a push cart yo-yo (よ) stand. Having a surplus of yo-yos, he starts throwing them at you. This makes you stop using the jackhammer as you need both hands to fend off the yo-yo barrage. Your hat is doing little to defend you from the onslaught of yo-yos being tossed at you. Feel the yo-yos hitting your body and listen to them roll away after striking you.
# | 尾 | Tail | び ; お, ぽ | Flag + Fur | You see a flag stuck in the ground with a little bit of fur coming out from it and on closer inspection you realize it’s actually a tail. Someone stuck a flag into some sort of animal, pushing it under the ground. All that’s visible now is some fur and part of the tail. What kind of animal could it be? You start to feel the soft fur with your hand and then the stench of death hits your nostrils. Ew. You try to pull the flag out of the ground and hear a rumbling buzzing sound. At the end of the flagpole you see a huge beehive (び)! These bees made their home under the tail! Maybe that’s why the flag was sticking in it… to warn people. Oops. See the bees swarming out from around the tail and toward your face. Run! Run before there’s nothing left of you but your own tail!
# | 論 | Theory | ろん | Say + Hat + Ground + Bookshelf | You say, throwing your hat on the ground in front of the bookshelf, "I have a theory!" All this reading and thinking has finally given you a wonderful idea, a theory you think might solve all of your problems! This theory you've thought of is great, it's going to change everything! "What is your theory, Ron (ろん)?" asks Hermione. You're Ron Weasley, and you just came up with a theory that you think will help you stop Voldemort. "Ron? Ron, what's your theory? What's your theory, Ron?" Hermione asks over and over. But you freeze. You don't remember who you are. "Hermione, I have a theory that I was just a person learning Japanese, and not a magical boy at all." "Shut up Ron, that's a stupid theory," she replies.
# | 厚 | Thick | あつ ; こう | Cliff + Sun + Child | Hanging off the edge of a cliff is a sun worshipping child with a thick unibrow. Hanging off the cliff, the child cries at the sun for cursing him to this cruel fate. Even the thickness of his unibrow is not enough to give the child the strength to pull himself back up. I mean, this unibrow is really, really thick. So thick it doesn’t even look real. But it is. It’s really real and really thick. The child's thick unibrow can't wait any longer and gives up. It hops off the child's face and says, "Hey dude, I'll be at Sue's (あつ). She'll appreciate my thick, luxuriousness more than a weakling like you. I guess if you want to go see that thick, beautiful unibrow you'll have to go see it at Sue's now. What's that? Oh, don't worry about the child. It uh. It's probably at Sue's too! Maybe... (or dead).
# | 妻 | Wife | さい ; つま | Ground + Brush + Woman | On the ground, holding a brush, is the woman you call your wife. You're standing above your wife, trying to figure out what she's making with her brush on the ground. If you have a real wife in real life, picture her doing this right now. Your wife is drawing your cyborg (さい) on the ground. Oh no... now your wife is making kissy faces at the cyborg drawing. Okay, so your wife may be in love with the cyborg monstrosity you created a while ago. This could become a problem.
# | 責 | Blame | せき ; せ | Life + Shellfish | The life of a shellfish is filled with blame. They take the blame for everything from food poisoning and allergies, to cutting people's feet on beaches. Just imagine an innocent little shellfish, living its quiet little life, while everyone's heaping blame on it. It hides in its little shell and tries to deflect all that blame. What a life! When those poor shellfish aren't having blame piled on them, they're being eaten, because shellfish are thought to make for a very sexy (せき) meal. Imagine trying to look sexy as you slurp up those saucy little shellfish.
# | 建 | Build, Construct | けん ; た | Yoga + Brush | Your magic yoga brush lets you build what's in your mind's eye. You do the bridge pose, and in your mind you imagine your brush painting an actual bridge. When you open your eyes, there it is! A bridge has been built, leading straight to your front door. You build a bridge. Immediately after, someone is climbing up onto it. It's Ken (けん) the samurai. He waves at you and says, "Did you build this? The craftsmanship is amazing." It seems like Ken the samurai really appreciates your building skills.
# | 条 | Clause | じょう | Winter + Tree | A winter tree is only a winter tree due to a clause in its tree contract. The clause states that it cannot be a tree in the summer, because that is the summer tree's territory. Same goes for autumn and spring trees. Go ahead and look at the winter tree's contract, if you want (they're nailed to every tree). There's the clause that says it can only be a tree in the winter. This clause was written into all trees' contracts by Joe (じょう), the large farmhand. Joe noticed that the trees were getting too crowded, so he wrote up these clauses and added them to the trees' contracts. Now, the forests are less crowded, thanks to the little clause. Makes sense that a farmhand like Joe would do this, too. The fewer trees, the more farmland. It's good for folks like Joe.
# | 済 | Come To An End | さい ; す | Tsunami + Simultaneous | You see a tsunami that's simultaneous (with another tsunami, I assume) and you know the world is about to come to an end. Imagine a tsunami simultaneously happening as the world comes to an end. Oh no, isn't there any way to stop this!? Just as the world is about to come to an end, your cyborg (さい) appears and blocks it with its cyborg body! So the world won't come to an end this one time, thanks to the cyborg you made. Though it doesn't look very good. The cyborg is beaten up and full of water. This might be the end for it...
# | 委 | Committee | い ; ゆだ | Grain + Woman | Women who get together to talk about grains are a committee. They're the Committee of Women for Grains (tm tm tm). What does this committee discuss, you wonder. Imagine what this committee of women could be coming together to discuss. Aren't grains just grains? Why do they need a whole committee? Well, grains need a committee because the eagles (い) have been eating them all. The women know this, so they're meeting and trying to come up with a way to stop these pesky eagles from eating all the grains and leaving none for the humans. Imagine a committee of women standing together in a field of grain, watching eagles swooping around. They take notes and mutter to one another about their options.
# | 省 | Conserve | しょう, せい ; はぶ | Few + Eye | You only have a few eyes so you need to conserve what's left. You only have like, three eyes left. If you conserve them . You're trying to conserve your eyes, when the Shougun (しょう) marches by. He stops, sees you, and demands you give him your remaining eyes! But sir, I'm conserving what little I have left! The Shougun stares down at you, eyes blazing, and you hand over all but one of your eyes. Now you really have to conserve, or you'll be blind. Thanks Shougun. I bet he has plenty of eyes, he didn't need yours.
# | 制 | Control, System | せい | Cow + Towel + Knife | Cows, using nothing more than towels and knives, have taken control of the world. Their system of control is brutal—payback for how us humans have treated them I guess. Imagine this new cow-controlled world—there are cows on every street corner, armed with towels and knives, intimidating all us humans into following their system. It's time to take control back from the cows! Pull out your saber (せい) and fight back! The cows' towels and knives won't stand a chance against your saber!
# | 批 | Criticism | ひ | Fingers + Compare | If you use your fingers to point when you compare things you're really just throwing around criticism. You should never need to point fingers when you're just comparing things. If you're pointing and picking and being mean, that's criticism. Some criticism is okay, as long as it's constructive and it helps the person get better. But when you start pointing fingers, it's time to step back and try to not be such a jerk. If you're having trouble not giving out criticism, just think about how you would react if someone criticized you. You'd feel an embarrassed heat (ひ) rise throughout your body. That heat will cover your whole face. Before you throw criticism around, imagine that embarrassed heat. You don't want to feel that way, so why would you do it to someone else?
# | 断 | Cut Off | だん ; ことわ, た | Lion + Rice + Axe | A lion harvesting rice uses an axe to cut off the tops of the stalks. The lion is roaming the rice fields using his axe to harvest the rice. He does so by cutting off the part of the rice stalks he needs. Picture this lion on his hind legs, walking through a rice field. He’s holding an axe in one hand and acting like a human. See him cut off the plants and hear the whoosh of the axe as he cuts. The lion will cut off rice stalks until dawn (だん). But at the first light of dawn, it will run and hide in the shade of the trees, cut off from the rice. When dawn comes in Africa (it's a lion, so that's where he is) it gets too hot to be in the sun, so the lion gets cut off from his job of cutting things off.
# | 任 | Duty | にん ; まか | Leader + King | Both a leader and a king have a duty to protect their people. A good leader always protects his followers, and a good king always protects his subjects. This is their duty. Imagine yourself being protected by your king and leader. They don’t really like you, but it is their duty to protect you. See them fighting off evil doers and taking bullets for your sake. You’re the village nincompoop (にん), but the king and the leader still have a duty to protect you. Even a nincompoop is important to the kings and leaders of the world. You’re a nincompoop. Even though you’re so nincompoopy, your king and leader still have a duty to protect you. Feel happy and content, despite your nincompoopery.
# | 素 | Element | そ, す ; もと | Life + Thread | The life thread is an element essential to all living things. This thread of life joins all things together, providing an essential relationship between all life. This element is all that holds this world together. Visualize this element of life, interconnecting all living things. Without it, everything would fall apart and into chaos. You need to keep this element clean, so you make sure to wash it with soap (そ) every single day. This turns out to be pretty hard because the element is an invisible thread, but you do your best. Imagine grabbing hold of the element that holds all life together and trying to wash it with soap. It's slippery so you keep dropping it and soap keeps going in your eyes.
# | 敵 | Enemy | てき ; かな, かたき | Mohawk + Winter | Seeing a mohawk in the winter means the enemy is nearby. You are from the dreadlock tribe and the mohawk tribe is your enemy. You’re deep in the heart of battle and winter has fallen. Now is the time to take out the enemy. Picture yourself holed up in a winter encampment, waiting to strike at the mohawk wearing enemies. Feel the cold around you as you scan the horizon for mohawks. You’re kind of a techie (てき), so you have an advantage over your enemy. You’re armed with night vision goggles and other cool tech gear as well. Being a techie certainly has its advantages. Imagine yourself all teched out like the techie you are. Hear the beeps and boops of all the technology you have at your disposal as you search for more mohawk enemies.
# | 羨 | Envy, Jealousy | せん ; うらや | Sheep + Next | Sheep are always looking at the next animal, full of envy and jealousy. Picture a sheep comparing itself to the next creature, and feeling deep envy and jealousy. Why does it feel that way? The reason the sheep feels such envy and jealousy is that the next creature is a centaur (せん)! Who wouldn't be jealous of a creature as noble as a centaur? Being a centaur is every sheep's dream, so they can't help feeling terrible jealousy when they see one.
# | 設 | Establish | せつ ; もう | Say + Weapon | If you say a new weapon idea out loud, then it will be established immediately. Try it out: I want a stabbing weapon with extra weapons that can pop out on the sides. *POOF* You've established a new weapon. And it's been added to the official weapon wiki of the world. Weapons have to be established in sets (せつ). So you have to make another one that goes with it. Make them cohesive please. Establish weapons in sets or the people who use them won't be able to match each other.
# | 検 | Examine | けん | Tree + Squid | You see a tree with a squid on it, so you get closer to examine it. As you examine the tree and the squid in it, you think, "Huh, nope still weird." You should examine it further to find out what's going on. You're sticking your face in really, really close to examine this little squid in the tree when Ken (けん) the samurai appears behind you. "There you are, squid! Thank you citizen, I've been looking all over for my little chum." Imagine how many trees Ken examined before he found you both. Picture him putting his face really close to each one, then shedding a single tear when he realized this squid wasn't in it.
# | 岡 | Hill | おか ; こう | Head + Horns + Ground + Mountain | You have a scene going on inside your head. It is of a pair of horns on the ground atop a mountain. No. It is not just one pair of horns. It is many. So many that they create a giant hill atop the mountain, which is already pretty high. Imagine this hill of horns on top of this mountain. This hill of horns makes it possible for you to get just high enough to touch the top of the sky. How was standing atop this hill of horns on top of a mountain to touch the sky? Eh. It was okay (おか), but that's about it. Feel indifferent about this hill of horns on top of the mountain. It's all in your head anyways.
# | 増 | Increase | ぞう ; ふ, ま | Dirt + Mask | The dirt mask is a mask which, when put on, will greatly increase the amount of dirt. Imagine putting it on, and suddenly the dirt around you increases by quite a bit. Use the dirt mask to increase the dirt around you. The zombies (ぞう) are trying to escape, so you just keep increasing the dirt on top of them so they can't get out. Zombie hands keep coming out of the ground, but as long as you wear the mask and increase the dirt on top of them, they won't be able to escape their earthly prison.
# | 査 | Inspect, Investigate | さ | Tree + Top Hat | If a tree is growing out of a top hat you need to inspect it to find out why and how this happened. You should probably investigate the area too. I mean, how could a tree grow out of a top hat anyway? Seems suspicious. Inspect the tree. Inspect the top hat. Did you find anything? While inspecting, you realize you need to saw (さ) the tree open to come to a good conclusion. This seems a bit unnecessary, but no! No! For the sake of this investigation you must saw the tree in half! Imagine stopping to inspect the tree after each minute of sawing. You'll find out why it's growing out of a top hat! Eventually!
# | 判 | Judge | はん, ばん | Half + Knife | "I'll cut that baby in half with a knife if you don't figure out custody," says the judge. Ah, the oldest judge trick in the book. Since you two can't make a decision on who gets custody of the baby, the judge now has to step in and judge for you. Will you figure it out for yourself, or let the baby get cut in half? What an effective judge. This judge is Han (はん) Solo, so you know he's not going to back down. Han Solo the judge isn't a bad person... but he isn't so good either. He'll cut that baby in half if you don't figure things out. That's the kind of judge Han Solo is.
# | 件 | Matter, Affair | けん ; くだり, くだん | Leader + Cow | The leader of the cow tribe is too important to deal with small matters and trivial affairs. Picture this hoity-toity cow leader who thinks he’s too good for small matters and affairs. See him acting all fancy like he’s better than everyone else. The cow even moos with a fake British accent. How pretentious. All of his affairs are taken care of by Ken (けん) the samurai, who he hired as his underling. Picture Ken the samurai scooping poop for the leader of the cows, because that's a matter of poop and state.
# | 際 | Occasion | さい ; きわ | Building + Festival | Buildings hold festivals on special occasions. A festival can't be happening all the time. Then it wouldn't be special, it would just be a party building, so they can only happen on special occasions. The occasion this time is to celebrate your wonderful cyborg (さい). It's about time you did something nice for it. Your cyborg has been really great lately. Your wife loves it. It saved the world. It's nice of you to take this occasion to show the cyborg how much it means to you all with a festival.
# | 祈 | Pray | き ; いの | Spirit + Axe | If you see a spirit with an axe, you better pray for your life. Spirits only hold axes if they're thinking about murder, so pray as hard as you can to try and get it to spare you. Imagine trying to pray as hard as you can as a spirit with an axe closes in on you. Can you hold your prayer concentration long enough? You pray and pray and pray and nothing happens. You stop praying and dare to open your eyes. There is a key (き) in front of you. Grab the key and hold it before you and pray for the spirit to take it. Moments later, both the key and the spirit are gone. I guess the key was prayer all along. ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
# | 挙 | Raise | きょ ; あ | Grass + Ground + Fins + Hand | If there’s grass on the ground and fins in your hand, you need to raise that hand up to the sky. You’re in the middle of a fisherman’s ritual, which can only be performed on grassy ground. You take fish fins from the previous year, and raise them up to the sky in order to ensure a good fishing harvest. Feel the grass in your toes and the fins in your hand as you raise them up to the sky. See the sun glistening off the fins as you raise them up in the air. This ritual only works in one part of the world however. It absolutely must be performed in Little Kyoto (きょ). The way Little Kyoto lines up with the sun and the sky and all that astrological junk makes it the best place for you to raise fish fins up in the air. Imagine yourself going through the same process as before, only this time imagine yourself in Little Kyoto. Little Kyoto is really little, so make sure you're in the right spot.
# | 認 | Recognize, Acknowledge | にん ; みと | Say + Blade + Heart | Whatever people say to you will be carved by a blade into your heart. Sounds cruel, but it's a way to make you recognize their power. How could you not acknowledge somebody if every word they said was carved into your heart? It's not particularly painful, but it does make you quite uncomfortable. Having their words carved into your heart makes you recognize the authority of many people. But the only one you could ever truly acknowledge, is Nintendo (にん). You're one of the biggest Nintendo fans out there, so how could you not acknowledge their greatness? No matter what is carved into your heart, Nintendo will always occupy a special place.
# | 資 | Resources | し | Next + Shellfish | The next shellfish will be yours, but this shellfish will be mine. These are the resources we have to share and distribute. Our resources are based around a system of trading shellfish. It's not that weird, plenty of ancient societies used shellfish as their main resource! You save up all of your resources so you can buy a sheep (し). You bring a big sack of your shellfish resources to the market and finally get to pick out that sheep you've had your eyes on for months. Of course you're going to use your resources to get a sheep. You're living in a time when shellfish are used to trade for goods and services!
# | 義 | Righteousness | ぎ | Righteousness | The kanji and the radical are exactly the same. That means they share meanings as well. If you know the radical, you will know the kanji as well! Such righteousness! Well, at least according to the king who thinks he's being righteous. His version of righteousness is to send anyone who disagrees with him to the guillotine (ぎ). "THIS IS NOT RIGHTEOUSNESS!" you yell, just before the guillotine comes down on your neck.
# | 権 | Rights | けん | Tree + Arrow + Turkey | Under the tree lies a turkey with a broken arrow in it. It doesn't have rights like humans, so people can just shoot turkeys with arrows and no one is punished. Imagine if humans didn't have any rights, like this turkey. People could just gun each other down in the street and no one would be punished for it... oh wait. :/ "You have rights, so I won't shoot you like this turkey," says the voice of Ken (けん) the samurai, from above you in the tree. He jumps down and picks the turkey up, the broken arrow sticking out of its neck. "Turkeys do not have rights, my friend. Just let this one go."
# | 派 | Sect, Faction | は | Tsunami + Cliff + Tofu | A tsunami is coming for the cliff made of tofu, but there is a special sect that protects tofu cliff. This sect of the tofu-lovers club takes their duties very seriously and they must protect this tofu cliff at all costs. All of the members of the sect are standing on the cliff, their hands raised, and right as the tsunami is about to collide with them, they shout, "Ha (は)!" and it's repelled! The tsunami sinks and rolls back out to sea, the tofu cliff is safe! Oh, do you want to be a member of the tofu sect? HA! Don't make me laugh. If you ask to be a member of a sect, you'll never get in. Never ask for a sect.
# | 務 | Task | む ; つと | Spear + Winter + Power | You use a special spear in winter to give yourself the power to do all of your tasks. It's hard to get a task done in winter. That's why you have this spear to power and motivate you. Your task is to spear this cow. "Moo (む)!" it yells at you and runs away. You need to make dinner though... that's your task, so you better catch up to that cow and put an end to its mooing. The moo haunts you as you finish your task. Luckily this spear is helping you keep going even though this task is really difficult.
# | 税 | Tax | ぜい | Grain + Guard | A guard is at your door and wants some of your grains. This is the tax you pay for living in this town. Back in the day, grains were used like currency, so it makes sense that there was a grain tax in the olden days. Can you imagine a guard coming to your door and demanding you pay your grain tax? You have to pay this tax, because if you don't the guard will cut you down with his special German saber, a zeiber (ぜい). "Don't you hear vat I zei? Pay ze tax or I vill zlei you!" he shouts. You don't want to be sliced with the zeiber, so you listen to vat he zei zei zei's and pay the tax.
# | 解 | Untie, Solve | かい ; と | Angle + Sword + Cow | Angle your sword correctly at a cow to untie it without hurting it. This is actually a pretty tough angle to get your sword, so in order to solve this cow puzzle you have to be really smart and careful. Picture the cow looking up at you with her big, brown eyes. She doesn't want to be tied here anymore, so you have to solve this and untie her. You're trying to untie this cow from the kayak (かい) you're both currently in. Some jerk tied the cow to this kayak and sent it toward a waterfall. If you don't solve this riddle fast, you'll both go with the kayak over the falls! Picture it: you're standing in a kayak with this cow, trying to untie the rope around their neck by getting your sword to cut it at the right angle. You can't hurt the cow or knock over the kayak. Can you solve it in time?!
# | 総 | Whole | そう | Thread + Public + Heart | Taking out your thread, you sew together the public's hearts to make them whole again. The world has been in turmoil and the public has been suffering, but it's time to stop splitting our hearts apart and fighting. It's time to be whole again. Once their hearts are whole, the public's soul (そう) becomes one! Suddenly people who were fighting for years are crying and holding one another. Their souls recognize each other, they're healed, and the whole nation is finally seeing eye to eye.
# | 援 | Aid, Assist | えん | Fingers + Football | You use your fingers in the game of football to aid and assist the other players. And when you smash your fingers in football, you need to get some aid yourself. If you're from the UK, just imagine someone kicking or stomping on your fingers instead. Picture yourself playing football. You catch the ball with your fingers and then assist your team by running and smashing your body into the enemy team. But in the process you smash your fingers... so you need to go to the aid tent. When you need aid for your football wrecked fingers you can't help but feel like it's the end (えん) for you. Your fingers hurt so much, you don't even want the nice nurses to aid you. You can't assist your team anymore because you got hurt. This isn't fair! It's the end. The end of your life and your career. Boo hoo hoo!
# | 態 | Appearance, State, Shape | たい ; わざ | Ability + Heart | You have a great ability because your heart gives you the appearance of a superhuman. Your heart is really strong and powerful, fuelling your body to the best of its ability. All this together gives you the appearance of someone in top condition. See yourself in this ideal appearance. Everyone loves to look at you because you look so awesome. Your heart has given you many great abilities. Feel strong and powerful in this body of yours. While you may have the appearance of someone who is super strong, powerful, and awesome, you do have one shortcoming. You don’t know how to tie (たい) a tie. Actually, you don’t even know how to tie your shoes, let alone your tie. How embarrassing. Since you don’t know how to tie a tie or tie your shoes, you wear slip ons and clip ons. Hear the noise of Velcro being undone as you kick off your shoes and unclip your tie after a hard day’s work at the office.
# | 誕 | Birth | たん | Say + Yoga + Correct | They say yoga is the correct way to go through birth. Birth isn't easy, but people keep telling you that yoga is the right way to prepare and actually do it. Picture multiple people you know saying you should do yoga if you plan to give birth. It isn't a question of whether you want to, it's the correct way to do it. So you should. To prepare for giving birth you end up doing so much yoga outside that you get a really deep tan (たん). Hopefully having a tan doesn't make birth harder, since you've worked so hard to do this the correct way with so much yoga.
# | 衣 | Clothes | い, え ; ころも, きぬ | Clothes | The clothes radical and the clothes kanji are exactly the same! Surprising!  An eagle (い) sees a pile of your clothes and lays an egg (え) in them. The eagle’s egg needs a soft warm place to incubate, and your pile of clothes is the perfect place. Look at the eagle and her egg sitting atop your clothes. Every time you get close the eagle starts to screech at you fiercely. Screee! Screee!
# | 状 | Condition | じょう | Icicle + Dog | See all those icicles to the dog's left? Good thing they all fell on his left, or he would've been in a terrible condition. Picture a bunch of big, sharp icicles all falling down directly next to this dog. Now imagine the condition he would've been in, had they all fallen directly on top of him. Poor little thing. What saved the dog's condition was none other than Joe (じょう), the local farmhand. He constantly keeps an eye on the dog's condition, including any dangerously sharp icicles that could descend on him. Good guy Joe, always worrying about his dog's condition. Everyone needs a farmhand like Joe.
# | 賀 | Congratulations | が | Power + Mouth + Shellfish | You use the power of your mouth to spit shellfish at people as a form of congratulations! In fact, you yell "CONGRATULATIONS!" as the shellfish come pouring out of your powerful mouth. Shellfish were once used as currency, so this totally makes sense. Just think of the shellfish as money coming out of your mouth as you say your congratulations. When you say congratulations like this, you look just like a gargoyle (が). You're crouching down, your mouth wide open, just like a stone gargoyle. The next time you're congratulating someone, assume the gargoyle stance and dump all of their congratulatory shellfish on them from your mouth.
# | 築 | Construct, Build | ちく ; きず | Bamboo + Saw + Tree | You use a bamboo saw to cut down trees to construct and build a building. The bamboo saw was crafted by a master bamboosmith, and cuts through trees with ease so you can quickly construct this new building. Imagine yourself working the bamboo saw. It's made of bamboo, but its sharp edge glistens with a mysterious aura as you slice through tree after tree. Feel how unnaturally easy it is to cut down piles of logs to build with. As you construct and build this building, you hear a strange cheeping noise. Suddenly a chick (ちく) pops out of one of the logs you are building with. Then another, and another. You're surrounded by chicks! Is this because you used the magical(?) bamboo saw?? Imagine trying to construct the rest of this building covered in baby chicks. They're very cute, but this is dangerous! You have to build very carefully, so you don't accidentally hurt any of them.
# | 降 | Descend | こう ; お, ふ | Building + Winter + Cow | Inside the building is the Winter Cow. You need to see it, so you go inside. It is deep down in there, and you'll have to descend to reach it. Focus on descending the stairs. There are many signs that say "To Winter Cow: descend" with an arrow pointing down. "I guess I'll have to descend," you say. You descend to the bottom and there it is, the Winter Cow. You walk up to the cow, and it swings its head back to see you. Instead of a cow's face, it's こういち's face. "Hello, thank you for descending all the way down here to see me," says the Winter Cow with こういち's face. "You thought you could use the Winter Cow to stop me, but as you can see, I got here first."
# | 各 | Each | かく ; おの | Kiss | You kiss each of your best pals to show them how much you love and care for them. You kiss each friend right on the mouth. Imagine kissing each of your best friends on the mouth. Does this make you uncomfortable? Excited? Both? Feel that feeling. Actually, each of your best pals are of the cock (かく) variety. By that, I mean they are both roosters. Imagine kissing both of these cocks on their beaks. Kissing the cock beak is kind of a strange experience. Feel the feathers in your hands as you steady the cock to kiss it. Cock-a-doodle-doo!
# | 評 | Evaluate | ひょう | Say + Peace | You should say "peace" before you evaluate a situation. That way everyone will know where you’re coming from. If you’re honest and say "peace" before you evaluate a situation out loud, everyone will know where you stand. What situation would you like to evaluate? Be sure to say "peace" before doing so. Imagine yourself doing this out loud and think of what you would say. When you say "peace," you end up making a really bad pun and you hear somebody say “Heyo!” (ひょう) You look at the people around you and try to evaluate who said heyo, but you can’t tell. You start talking again when somebody exclaims “That’s what she said” and another person shouts “Heyo!” once again, but you still can’t evaluate who’s saying these things. Imagine yourself trying to explain a situation you’re about to evaluate and your audience keeps shouting “Heyo!” every other sentence. Imagine how frustrating that would be. Get angry at your rude audience and how much they shout “Heyo.”
# | 費 | Expense, Cost | ひ ; つい | Dollar + Shellfish | Dollars and shellfish are used to pay expenses and costs. Shellfish used to be used as currency, so they're like the coins that go with dollars. Imagine opening your bank account and looking at all of your monthly expenses. Now drag the little dollar and shellfish icons over to cover all of those costs. What is the biggest expense and cost? It's the heat (ひ) bill. When you see how expensive your heat is, you feel a heat going through your body too.
# | 姿 | Figure, Shape, Form | し ; すがた | Next + Woman | “Bring in the next woman so that I may examine her figure!” We’re holding auditions for a commercial and we need to find a woman with a nice figure. The last woman was no good, so bring in the next one. Imagine yourself as a figure judge on this panel. You need to find a woman with the perfect figure to cast in your commercial. You'd cast yourself, but you just aren't confident (Ridiculous! You're special, and beautiful, and no matter who you are [yes you reading this right now] you should be proud of who you are!). The next woman comes in and you examine her figure. The figure you've been searching for! It just happens to belong to a sheep (し) woman. But she's soft, fluffy, and round. The perfect figure! We should all try harder to have a figure like this stunning sheep woman!
# | 勢 | Force | せい, せ ; いきお | Womb + Circle + Power | The womb is a circle of power where a force of nature is formed. The womb has the power to create life. Life is a force of nature, and the circle of life starts in the womb. Imagine yourself in the womb, the circle of power. You’re being born into the world. Feel the force of your mother all around you. Now pretend you're the mother. You'll need all the force you can muster to bring that baby into the world, so you grab hold of your special saber (せい) and slice it about in the air to give you the extra force you need. All that force works wonders, and when the baby's born you slice through the umbilical cord with your saber.
# | 諦 | Give Up, Abandon | あきら ; てい | Say + Stand + Towel | You have something to say, you stand on a towel, and shout, "I GIVE UP!" Standing on a towel is the universal signal for giving up, but you still need to say you're abandoning whatever it is with your mouth too (just in case). Just before you're ready to give up on something, you yell, "AKIRA (あきら)!" You don't know anyone named Akira, you just saw it in a movie once and it made sense, you know? So now when you've tried really hard on something, but you have to abandon it anyway, you shout AKIRA into the sky.
# | 示 | Indicate, Show | じ, し ; しめ | Jackhammer | You can use a jackhammer to indicate and show someone where the prize is buried. You buried the prize to keep it safe, but the jackhammer is great at unearthing it. Jackhammers do a great job and show where the treasure lies. They indicate quite clearly where one needs to go. Imagine using this jackhammer to show someone where the prize is buried. Feel the vibrations through your hands and the rest of your body. Actually, you're unearthing Jesus (じ). He’s the treasure. For your soul. He’s here to show you that Jesus is still a hip and cool guy and he wants to indicate to you that having faith in Jesus and God and stuff is super rad. Jesus is all like, “Who has two thumbs and wants to show you the way of the Lord? This guy.” Picture Jesus getting all over the top and super preachy about his religious beliefs. He’s doing everything he can to indicate to the crowd that he’s the best, and show them how cool he is. Listen to Jesus preach to the crowd, desperate for their attention.
# | 寝 | Lie Down, Sleep | ね ; しん | Roof + Icicle + Wolverine + Forehead + Stool | From the roof, an icicle falls and hits wolverine in the forehead, and he has to go over to the stool to lie down. And eventually he goes to sleep. Picture this entire scene. The icicle falls in slow motion from the roof. It hits wolverine right in the middle of his forehead. He goes down. He has to lie down. He has to sleep. While wolverine sleeps, he makes a horrible neighing (ね) sound. It's like there's a giant horse in his mouth screaming to get out! NEIGH NEIGH! Wolverine might have a concussion that's making him neigh in his sleep. I guess it's good that he's lying down, but I'm pretty sure you're not supposed to sleep... Maybe you should wake him up so the neighing will stop—I mean, so he'll be okay!
# | 営 | Manage | えい ; いとな | Viking + Bathtub | A Viking who knows how to use a bathtub will have to manage all the baths for the other Vikings. Vikings aren't so great with bathing... if you can get one Viking to figure it out he has to manage the rest of them. Picture a Viking trying to manage his Viking friends so they'll use the bathtub properly. He has to manage which people go in when, how hot or cold the water is, and provide all the soap. It's a very important job. The poor Viking trying to manage all the others keeps having to confiscate acorns (えい). "You can't take baths in acorns and wood, it has to be water!" he shouts. Some of the Vikings managed to fill their bathtubs with acorns and are trying to rub themselves clean with them instead of water...
# | 坊 | Monk | ぼう | Dirt + Direction | Can you look at the dirt and know which direction you need to go? Then you might be a monk. Monks have amazing skills like that. And I'm sure you've seen monks wandering around in lots of media. They don't need maps or smartphones. They just look at the dirt and let the earth guide them to where they need to be. Picture a monk walking through a large field in the middle of nowhere. He knows where to go, he's not afraid. The dirt will lead him in the right direction. You want to know the monk's trick so you hide behind him for a while as he walks. Finally the monk stops, looks around, takes out a bowling (ぼう) ball and starts bowling in the dirt. The bowling ball rolls off, the monk follows it, and then heads off in that direction. Imagine a monk bowling in the middle of the road. Imagine your shock at how well he handles the ball. Also, imagine how heavy it must be for a monk to carry a bowling ball everywhere!
# | 罰 | Penalty, Punishment | ばつ | Net + Say + Knife | If you try to say things with a knife, the police will put you in a net as your penalty for breaking the knife laws. You can't just go up to other people and say things with a knife out. Imagine getting so mad that you use a knife instead of words to say what you're trying to say. A net falls over you and pulls you down. The knife goes flying. This is your penalty for acting like a crazy person. Your penalty for breaking the law isn't over. Now that you're stuck in a net, you can't fight back when they hit you with bats (ばつ). If you don't want to be punished with bats, maybe next time don't use a knife instead of your words.
# | 策 | Plan | さく | Bamboo + Tree + Head | With a bamboo tree resting atop your head, you devise a plan. The plan is actually for getting the bamboo tree off of your head. You’re trapped under it. Imagine being trapped under this bamboo tree that is resting on your head. You’re stuck. Feel the weight of the bamboo tree pressing on your head as you try and devise a plan to get out from under it. But why is this bamboo tree so heavy? You look to each end of the bamboo and realize that there is a sack (さく) tied on each end. Each sack seems to be filled with heavy rocks. Looks like someone made a plan to trap you here. Now you have to devise a plan to escape! Bamboo is usually kind of light, but this bamboo has a sack of rocks tied to each end making it heavy. Imagine yourself trying to remove this bamboo tree by pushing it up and away from you. It’s like doing a bench-press, bamboo style.
# | 案 | Plan | あん | Cheap + Tree | A cheap tree has a plan. A plan to stay cheap. Picture a tree coming up with some elaborate plans to make sure they can spend as little money as possible. The cheap tree's plan involves only buying anchovies (あん) and surviving on them. Good exposure to the sun and fresh water is too expensive. The tree plans to save money by eating anchovies. You're not sure about this anchovy plan. Are you cheap enough to choose a life of eating only anchovies?
# | 提 | Present, Submit | てい | Fingers + Sun + Correct | Pointing your fingers to the sun is the correct way to present yourself or offer to submit your ideas. You're really just raising your hand. And when you want to present yourself, your ideas, or offer anything, the correct way is to raise your fingers to the sun. You definitely learned this in school. Picture yourself in class. You want to present next! You want to submit your ideas for class approval. So raise those fingers to the sun the correct way and wait for your teacher to call on you. You want to present your show and tell of tater tots (てい) to the class. You raise your hand, the teacher calls on you, and you submit the tater tots for her and the class's approval. "Oh my!" the teacher exclaims, "I hope you brought enough tater tots to present to the whole class!" You raise your hand once more to the sky, and in it you submit a whole tray of tater tots! The next time you have to submit work in class just raise your hand and give everyone tater tots. Instant "A" material.
# | 置 | Put | ち ; お | Net + Fix | This net needs to be fixed if you want to put food on the table. You can't put something in your net if it's broken. Fix it! Once it's fixed, you put a bunch of cheese (ち) in the net. You want to catch something that eats cheese, so that you can then put that animal on your dinner table. Imagine putting a bunch of cheese in your now-fixed net. It kinda stinks!
# | 域 | Region, Boundary | いき | Dirt + Drunkard + Mouth + Ground | Under the dirt in the ground is a drunkard with something in his mouth from a region in North America. He died from whatever it is that’s in his mouth. That’s how this drunkard ended up under the ground in the first place. His whole face region is disfigured from whatever he ate. I wonder what region of North America the strange object came from? Try and imagine yourself unearthing this dead drunkard and trying to figure out what’s in his mouth. Smell the decay of flesh as you poke around in his mouth, trying to figure out what this thing is. Think of an object and what region of North America it comes from. In an attempt to identify what region of North America the thing in the drunkard’s mouth came from, you touch it and try to remove it with your bare hands. Upon touching whatever it is, you find it to be all icky (いき) and gooey. Like, super icky. So icky that you barf in the region immediately adjacent to you. Imagine touching this super icky substance from the drunkard’s mouth. It’s really icky. Feel yourself throwing up as you feel the icky goo in the region between your fingers.
# | 更 | Renew | こう ; さら, ふ | Ground + Rice Paddy + Treasure | In the ground of the rice paddy is a treasure. As you pull it out of the mucky ground, you can feel your life force beingrenewed. Seems like the treasure has some magical ability to renew the cells in your body. Really try to imagine this feeling as you pull the treasure out of the rice paddy’s ground. Perhaps it feels just as refreshing as getting a full night’s sleep. Just as you were getting accustomed to this life renewing treasure, こういち comes out of nowhere, stealing your treasure and running off with it. All you could hear was a sly “yoink!”, and suddenly your life renewing treasure was gone. God knows what things こういち will get up to with this life renewing treasure in his possession (but it sure won’t be anything good).
# | 応 | Respond | おう ; こた | Canopy + Heart | If someone gets under the canopy over your heart you should respond to them. You usually ignore everyone, but this one person... they really got under there and touched your heart. You finally feel like they're the right person to respond to. You respond and it turns out it was to the 王 (おう). The 王 touched your heart, you responded, and now you're together. It's like a fairy tale!
# | 宮 | Shinto Shrine, Shrine, Palace | みや ; きゅう, ぐう | Roof + Bathtub | It may just be a roof over a bathtub, but this here is actually a Shinto shrine. It is indeed just a roof over a bathtub, but I guess spirits inhabit everything according to Shintoism, so there's no reason this bathtub can't be a Shinto shrine too. What god does this Shinto shrine hold? You see that "It's a-me-ya (みや)! (Mario!)" It makes sense, the person who says "It's-a-me! (Mario)" is someone who works on bathtubs (and plumbing).
# | 袖 | Sleeve | そで ; しゅう | Spirit + Reason | A mix of spirit and reason helped you invent the sleeve. Your spirit told you your arms were uncomfortable, stuck to your sides under that shirt. Reason told you that maybe, just maybe, if you made holes for your arms something good would come out of it. And that's how sleeves were born! Your spirit and your arms are free! Imagine how unreasonable no sleeves were. How on earth did you survive without them?! Sleeves are so dead (そで)! Short-sleeve shirts, long-sleeve jackets… Ugh, they're just so old-fashioned. So dead! Sleeves are SO dead, and you wouldn't dream of wearing them. It's sleeveless for you, every time.
# | 吸 | Suck, Inhale | きゅう ; す | Mouth + Escalator | Your mouth is like an escalator you use to suck and inhale things into your body. If you're ever having trouble remembering how to suck or inhale, just picture an actual escalator that leads into your mouth. That'll definitely help. Use this mouth ability to suck cucumbers (きゅう) into your mouth. Cucumbers are shaped like cylinders so you can suck them into your mouth like this. Just as nature intended. You can inhale a cucumber too, I suppose, but don't tell anyone I told you to.
# | 過 | Surpass | か ; す, あやま | Scooter + Mustache | While riding on your scooter, you grow a mustache on top of the mustache you already have in order to surpass the people around you. You're in a scooter race and your mustache is the only thing keeping you in the lead, but someone else has a mustache too! So you grow another mustache to surpass them once again! Picture yourself running on a scooter with a bunch of other people and closing your eyes tight, willing another mustache to sprout out of your face to surpass them all. Suddenly, something else manages to surpass you all. It's a car (か)! A car with two mustaches is also riding on a scooter and going way faster than you. Watch helplessly as the car surpasses every single one of your scooters. Both of your mustaches droop in shame.
# | 領 | Territory | りょう | Orders + Geoduck | Taking orders from a geoduck will place you into enemy territory. Geoducks make terrible commanders, so if you take orders from one, expect to end up in unknown territory, potentially even enemy territory. Be prepared. Imagine this geoduck shouting orders at you to march into enemy territory. See its gross body as a mouth forms and starts shouting out orders. Not wanting to end up dead in enemy territory, you decide to escape this geoduck leader by getting on a row (りょう) boat and rowing your way outta there. The geoduck commander orders you to halt your escape, but you still get in your row boat and row away. Feel yourself in the row boat as you imagine rowing away to safe territory. Hear the geoduck in the background shouting at you from shore, ordering you to return to land.
# | 脱 | Undress, Escape | だつ ; ぬ | Moon + Guard | The light of the moon is shining on a guard who’s been on duty all night. In fact, the moon light is making him so warm, he’s trying to undress and escape! Somebody stop him! Picture the guard being so warm from the moonlight that he’s trying to simultaneously undress and escape. You can’t just let him leave his post! You’re unable to stop the guard from undressing and making his escape, so you decide to start throwing some darts (だつ) at him. Perhaps that’ll make him stop. Imagine yourself desperately throwing darts at the undressing, escaping guard, trying to make him stop. Or perhaps trying to pin his clothes to his body using the darts. Anything to stop this madness!
# | 統 | Unite, Rule, Govern | とう ; す | Thread + Allocate | You take all of your thread and allocate them into one place to unite them. With all your thread united and wrapped together, you're ready to rule and govern the world! Allocate all of your thread like you would your cash: by uniting it! Not at a bank, but in a big, intertwined lump. Now nobody can stop you and your big lump of thread! You're busy trying to unite all of your thread, twisting and tying and wrapping, and suddenly you look at the ball in your hands and see とうきょう. You've united this thread into the shape of とうきょう. There are even little pins for all the famous neighborhoods and tourist spots. This is strange, because you don't remember putting them there. Try to do this yourself at home. Unite all of your thread and poof! There's とうきょう!
# | 価 | Value | か ; あたい | Leader + Helicopter | The helicopter the leader is in has the most value! He would only choose to fly the very best one, after all. That's why it's worth way more than the others. Actually, any helicopter he flies goes up in value. That's the amazing effect of a good leader. Can you understand the value of this helicopter? The leader flew it to war and back! So of course it's worth a lot! To further increase the helicopter's value, the leader bought himself a car (か) and then tied them together. Now it has the value of a helicopter AND a car! Wow! Imagine driving a valuable car with the leader's helicopter on top. Yeah!
# | 値 | Value, Price | ち ; ね, あたい | Leader + Fix | A leader can fix the value of certain goods and services. Leaders basically get to decide how much everything is worth in value, like rice or lamps or how much you get paid for the work you do. Imagine having a wonderful leader who values your work and time and so the value you get from working is high. Now imagine a terrible leader, who thinks you should be working at all times and doesn't find any value in what you do. Life will be a lot harder... This leader has fixed the value of cheese (ち), making it ￥1 permanently. One yen! That's, like, less than a penny! Unfortunately, the leader won't fix any of the other really expensive things... so now everyone only eats cheese. Imagine if you could fix the value of cheese to something. How much would you make it cost? If you were a dairy farmer you'd probably be pretty pissed about the leader making it this low.
# | 副 | Vice, Side | ふく | Scarecrow + Knife | That scarecrow with the knife is the vice president. Yeah, I know how he looks, and I'm pretty sure he does some murdering on the side, but you didn't hear that from me. I don't know how we managed to get a knife-wielding scarecrow as a vice president, there's a side of politics I don't get, I guess. I mean, just look at him up there. If something happens to our president we're stuck with that thing. It's the vice president's turn to speak at the podium and he just clears his throat and yells, "F**k (ふく) you!" to the crowd, holding up his knife. They cheer. What's going on? Normally if a vice president yells f**k you there would be... I dunno... consequences? What's happening?!
# | 観 | View | かん ; み | Arrow + Turkey + See | There's an arrow in a turkey that you can see in your view. The turkey seems to be viewing you too, from afar. View the turkey as the turkey views you. View the arrow stuck in it too. As you view the turkey, Genghis Khan (かん) suddenly comes into your view too. He towers over the injured turkey, leans down, and... pulls the arrow out!? As you view this strange scene, Genghis Khan turns and views you viewing him. He points two fingers to his eyes and then to you, and marches off into the woods. You also view the turkey running off in the other direction.
# | 藤 | Wisteria | ふじ ; とう, どう | Flowers + Moon + Gladiator + Water | The only flowers that the moon gladiators will water are wisteria. The moon gladiators have a thing for wisterias. Since they're on the moon, where did they get the wisteria from? Actually, from one of the points on earth that is nearest to the moon, Mt. Fuji (ふじ). Imagine them reaching down from the moon and plucking some wisteria up from Mt. Fuji then taking them back up to the moon. Now they water them.
# | 演 | Acting, Perform | えん | Tsunami + Roof + Street + Rice Paddy + Fins | There's going to be a tsunami. So you get up on your roof. You see people across the street, in a rice paddy. They watch as you put on a pair of fins. And you begin acting. This is your last chance to perform! But why? Because this acting will distract everyone from the impending tsunami. You dance around in your fins, pretending to swim. It's a wonderful performance. As the acting ends (えん), so do you all. The performance and the tsunami end together. How poetic.
# | 呼 | Call | よ ; こ | Mouth + Peace | A mouth that wants peace can call for it. If you don’t have a mouth, you can’t call for peace. So use your mouth and call for peace when you can. Peace is great. Call for peace. Say it aloud. I’m using my mouth to call for peace! But before you call for peace, you must first placate the masses. To do so, you astound them with your yo-yo (よ) skills. Once they are so entranced by how talented you are with a yo-yo, you easily convince them to make peace. Imagine yourself whirling this yo-yo about while you call for peace. Imagine yourself doing a variety of tricks with it as you slowly convince the people to agree to peace.
# | 崎 | Cape | さき ; き | Mountain + Big + Lip Ring | On top of a big mountain, wearing a lip ring, you see a cape jutting out into the ocean. You’re wearing a lip ring because you’re a cool and edgy individual who likes to climb big mountains. From the top of the big mountain, you see a cape. You’re tired from just climbing up the big mountain but the view is worth it. Feel the wind blustering around you as you take in the beautiful scenery, including the cape. Atop the big mountain overlooking the cape, you see a saw and a key (さき) lying on the ground. What are they doing there? See yourself picking up the saw and the key and examining them, as you wonder what on earth they're doing at the top of that big mountain.
# | 施 | Carry Out | し, せ ; ほどこ | Direction + Gun + Alligator | Moving in the direction of a gun, an alligator can carry out a murder once it reaches it. This alligator wants to kill someone. The alligator wants to carry out their execution. See the alligator swim really slowly in the direction of a gun. See the alligator as it prepares to carry out the murder. It’s scary. In order to carry out this murder, the alligator has to sneak up on its prey, so it can shoot it. You look across the water and see a sheep (し) grazing by the shore. The alligator is going to carry out a murder on that sheep! Watch as the alligator slinks under the water, holding the gun above the water. When it gets close enough, it carries out the murder on the sheep. Shooting it right in the chest. Now it can eat the sheep without worrying about needing to chomp on it.
# | 城 | Castle | しろ ; じょう | Dirt + Become | Dirt can become a castle at any time. You just have to have the right conditions. The right time, the right people, and any patch of dirt can grow into a huge castle. Every great building, especially castles, started off as just a plot of dirt, you know? It's kind of inspiring what we can become. Once you turn dirt into a castle, that's all she wrote (しろ). That's it. It's done. The story is over. Once a castle is there, there's really no turning back. So just remember that when dirt becomes a castle, that's all she wrote.
# | 護 | Defend | ご | Say + Flowers + Turkey + Stool | They say that flowers held by a turkey on a stool are good to defend yourself with. Even better than a guard dog they say. People are so confused by the turkey sitting on a stool holding flowers that they just lose their will to fight. This turkey is great to defend yourself and your home. Picture this turkey holding its flowers while sitting on its stool. Hear it gobbling as it defends everything around it with its mere presence. The only thing this flower-bearing turkey can't defend against is Godzilla (ご). Godzilla is pretty much undefeatable, especially for a turkey. The turkey is totally unable to defend anything from the mighty Godzilla. Imagine Godzilla approaching the flower turkey. Hear Godzilla roar as the turkey gobbles in fear before being crushed beneath the massive and scaly foot of Godzilla.
# | 鬼 | Demon | き ; おに | Demon | The demon radical and the demon kanji are exactly the same! Wicked!  How do you keep a demon locked up? Use a key (き). Use a lock and key and keep that demon locked up safely behind bars so he can’t get out and do bad demon stuff. Picture yourself locking up a demon with a special demon containing key. Hear the key click into the lock as the demon screams to be set free.
# | 割 | Divide | わり, わ, さ ; かつ | Roof + Life + Mouth + Knife | Under the roof of life a mouth with a knife divides cells to create life. The entire house glows with blobs of life, and the mouth holds the knife in its mouth and cuts the life blobs apart to help them grow. As it divides life, the mouth begins to look really familiar. It has big teeth and a crooked mustache... it's Wario (わり)! Sometimes Wario cuts himself by accident and just becomes わ (which is all he says too). Picture Wario's mouth dividing himself now, and creating more, smaller Warios. They all yell WA! and divide up even more until the whole room is full of わりs and わs!
# | 職 | Employment | しょく | Ear + Sound + Drunkard | Reaching your ear is the sound of a drunkard who can’t find employment. You hear him before you see him because he’s behind some trash cans. Being a drunkard, he’s like, super wasted and just kind of rambling to himself, making strange sounds. No wonder he can’t find employment. Hear the strange sounds this drunkard is making. Let his ramblings enter your ears and imagine what he could be trying to say. Since this guy is such a pathetic drunkard, it comes as no shock (しょく) that he can’t find employment. If he did find employment, I would be filled with both shock and awe. Actually you find out that he does have employment. He’s a garbage man. Feel the shock of making this shocking discovery. How can this drunkard possibly hold down his job like this?
# | 秀 | Excel | しゅう ; ひい | Grain + Stairs | If you can eat grains while running up stairs, you'll excel at everything. This special workout routine is so hard that, if you can do it, you'll be able to excel at every other thing you try. In order to excel at this, though, you need a good pair of shoes (しゅう). You have to eat the grains AND run up the stairs, or you aren't actually excelling. Good shoes will help you get there faster and protect your toes.
# | 贅 | Extravagant | ぜい ; いぼ | Dirt + Direction + Winter + Shellfish | In winter, shellfish head in the direction of dirt, which is what makes them so extravagant. Imagine all shellfish heading to the dirt, and then staying there all winter, coated in dirt. The dirt is what makes them so extravagant, and it’s why they’re so expensive. Think about that the next time you eat some shellfish. One of the shellfish stands out to you as being extra extravagant as… it’s holding onto a German saber, a zeiber (ぜい)?! This has got to be the most extravagant shellfish you’ve ever lied your eyes on. Just look at how extravagant it is with its zeiber. Simply magnificent.
# | 俳 | Haiku | はい | Leader + Criminal | A leader wishing to stop criminals will write a moving haiku. The leader pleads with the criminals to stop their crimes, to look within, and to realize there's more to life (like poetry!). Unfortunately, the leader of the criminals also writes haiku, and they want all the criminals to keep doing crimes. Look inside and see how much you want what others have, write a haiku, and then steal! A haiku is still a haiku (はい). Whether it's written by a law abiding leader or a criminal leader. Just remember: a haiku is always a haiku.
# | 停 | Halt | てい | Leader + Restaurant | The leader of the restaurant says, "Halt!" to everyone who wants to come in. The leader looks them up and down. Stares into their eyes. And then, maybe, they may go into the restaurant to eat. Imagine being told to halt in front of your favorite restaurant, then being turned away. Noooo! Better start sucking up to the restaurant leader. People only halt because they want this restaurant's world famous tater (てい) tots. Which is probably why there is a leader out front making sure only people who can really appreciate the tater tots can get in to eat them. HALT! NO TATERS FOR YOU!
# | 宅 | House, Home | たく | Roof + Slide + Seven | You need to go up on the roof and slide down seven times to make this your house. A house isn't a home until you've slid down it exactly seven times, you know. Imagine sliding down your house from the roof all the way down to the ground. I hope you aren't afraid of heights, because you have to do this six more times. If you try to slide down your new house and you land on a tack (たく), that means the house has rejected you. It isn't your home now. You need to leave and find a new home. As you slide, you close your eyes and really hope you don't end up with a tack in your butt and no home to sleep in tonight.
# | 痒 | Itchy | かゆ ; よう | Sick + Sheep | The sick sheep is itchy and it can barely sit still. Help the poor sheep! Imagine you were itchy but you couldn't scratch the spot. Now that you know how the sick sheep feels, give it a hand! Even though the sheep is itchy, look how kah-yute (かゆ) it is! It’s not just cute. It’s kah-yute! Say it out loud! Kah-yuuute!
# | 裁 | Judge | さい ; さば, た | Cross + Drunkard + Clothes | You place a cross on this drunkard's clothes to show him you judge him. In fact, you yell, "I JUDGE YOU FOR BEING DRUNK AND WEARING THESE CLOTHES, TAKE THIS!" He yells back, "YOU CAN'T JUDGE ME, I CAN DO WHAT I WANT. GET THAT JUDGEY CROSS OFF ME!" As you judge each other, your cyborg (さい) comes stomping over and slams the drunkard against the wall. With your trusty cyborg coming to your rescue, you can continue to judge this guy all you want. The cyborg joins in, "A judge would convict you if the fashion police brought you in. I have a bunch of meat and robot parts and even I'm better looking than you."
# | 律 | Law | りつ | Loiter + Brush | Loitering around with a brush? Sorry, but you're breaking the law. If you have a brush, that's okay. If you're loitering, that's okay. If you combine the two? Well... watch your back. Imagine a police officer coming for you. He's yelling at you because you have a brush and you're loitering. He grabs you, throws you to the ground, telling you what you're doing wrong. Where were you loitering with your brush, breaking the law? Right outside the Ritz (りつ) Hotel. You'd think that it would be okay since you were staying there, but the law is the law. Imagine the hotel staff watching as you get thrown to the ground. You yell "won't the Ritz do anything to help me??" They won't.
# | 導 | Lead | どう ; みちび | Road + Measurement | Take a measurement of the road. Hmm. It seems a bit too long. As you measure it, you continue down this road, wondering where it will lead you. Roads are really long, so I imagine it would take a long time to measure it (if you want to go from end to end). Imagine yourself pulling a tape measure along with you, all the while thinking, "where will this lead me?" Where does the road that you're measuring lead you? An awesome doughnut (どう) shop! What a perfect way to end this road measuring. You're hungry. Nom nom nom. Imagine eating your fill, and taste the donuts in your mouth. You just walked a long ways!
# | 革 | Leather | かく ; かわ | Leather | The leather radical and the leather kanji are exactly the same! Cool!  One way to get leather is to skin a male chicken, a cock (かく). Not a very efficient way to get leather, but one way nonetheless. You won’t get much leather from a cock, but you could skin one in a pinch, should you really need a little extra leather.
# | 乳 | Milk | にゅう ; ちち | Cleat + Child + Umbrella | Giving cleats to a child carrying an umbrella is the best way to gather milk. You don’t have any containers, so the child has to hold milk in the upside-down umbrella. The cleats are so the child can run back and forth to transport the milk around. See this child running in his cleats. Picture him holding the umbrella upside-down, milk sloshing all about as he runs. But where is this child exactly? He’s in New (にゅう) York City. What’s he doing in New York City you ask? Well, he's milking a cow. Why is there a cow to be milked in New York City? Good question. It’s the end of the world and New York City is the last remaining civilization. This is how people live now. Milk is important. Imagine post-apocalyptic New York City. Milk is a hot commodity here so it’s important not to spill any of the milk. Imagine yourself carrying the milk in the umbrella and being careful not to spill any of it.
# | 収 | Obtain | しゅう ; おさ | Vines + Stool | Wrap vines around a stool to obtain it. Don't worry about paying for it, sneak into the stool store and tie some vines around the legs. Then when you leave, pull the vines and the stool will come out after. That's how you obtain a stool! You can obtain a lot of goods this way without needing any cash. Just don't tell anyone I told you. Today you want to obtain a new pair of shoes (しゅう). You tie your vines around the stool they're on, and slowly inch them toward the door. You have to pull very slowly, or the shoes will fall off the stool. But you really, really want to obtain these particular shoes (they're really sweet), so you keep scooting them toward you.
# | 現 | Present Time, Appear | げん ; あらわ | King + See | The king can see the present time for what it really is. The future isn't important. The past isn't important. The present is when everything appears. People are constantly asking the king to do things for them and solve their problems. But the king can see exactly what needs to be done at the present time, and what can wait until tomorrow. At the present time the king is Genji (げん). The time has finally come for him to get serious, and as they say, there's no time like the present. Picture pretty Genji, carefully instructing his followers what to do at the present time and what can wait.
# | 備 | Provide, Equip | び ; そな | Leader + Flowers + Cliff + Task | The leader put flowers on a cliff. That is their task. It is to provide and equip the cliff with flowers. Imagine a leader carrying flowers up to the top of a cliff. They are saying "I must provide more flowers to the cliff" as they climb up. Why do they provide and equip the cliff with flowers? It's all for the bees (び). "The bees must be equipped with more flowers. I will provide these flowers for the bees!"
# | 紫 | Purple | し ; むらさき | Stop + Spoon + Thread | You stop a spoon from moving by tying it with thread that's purple. The spoon wouldn't stop moving around, so you had to use your favorite purple thread to make it stop. It's the strongest thread you have. Imagine tying this spoon down with thread that's a color other than purple. Ah, the thread snaps. Darn, you better use your extra strong purple thread (the best color for strength!). You have to use all of your purple thread, and now you need more. You go into the back yard and call over your purple sheep (し). Oh, did you think purple things were made with dye? No no, purple is a special color. You have to find unique purple sheep to make purple thread and clothes.
# | 則 | Rule | そく ; のっと | Shellfish + Knife | A shellfish with a knife makes all the rules. It isn't supposed to be making rules, but it has a knife, so who's going to argue? Picture a shellfish wielding a knife and shouting out new rules to all of the nervous people standing around it. The first rule the shellfish enacts is that all humans take off their socks (そく) and give them to him. Hmm... is this some kind of nasty shellfish? Who would want socks? Once everyone follows the rule, and the shellfish is on top of a pile of socks, he cackles, "It's easier to stab your toes with my knife now! Let's get to more rules!"
# | 棚 | Shelf | たな ; ほう | Tree + Moon | A tree with two moons on either side, holding the tree up in a horizontal angle, is a shelf. So, your shelf is made up of a tree and two moons. Imagine this shelf and put things on it. The moons are kind of rolling around, making it hard to build your shelf. Your moon shelf is great. It's also huge, because moons are really big. That means you can store a ton-a-stuff (たな) on it. Think about the ton-a-stuff you're going to put on there. Like, literally, measure out a ton of things and put them on there. It can hold it!
# | 突 | Stab, Thrust, Sudden | とつ ; つ | Hole + Big | In a hole, you see a big monster who wants to stab you. It thrusts its big spikes at you menacingly. No sudden movements now, or you'll fall right in! Look at this hole – it’s like, super big. The monster is really big. They’re terrifying enough on their own, but put them together and you’ve got a big problem. You feel very afraid of this hole and getting stabbed. Just don’t fall in, okay? You fall in the big hole. What did I say about sudden movements!? It’s totes (とつ) going to stab you for sure. Totes. This big monster inside the big hole is totes going to stab you. Why did you fall in??  Feel yourself backing up against the wall as its big spikes are thrust in your direction.
# | 準 | Standard | じゅん | Tsunami + Turkey + Cross | Riding a tsunami you see a turkey carrying a cross, but that’s pretty standard here. This is your dreamland. You always dream about tsunamis and the turkeys carrying crosses that ride them. This might be strange for other people, but for you it’s pretty normal. See this tsunami riding turkey in your mind. Hear it gobble loudly as it waves its cross around. Remember, this is standard fare for you. Nothing unusual here. These wacky dreams are only standard fare in June (じゅん) though. You don’t have them any other time of the year, just in June. You don’t know why June is the only time you have dreams about tsunami riding turkeys, but that’s just the way it is. It’s usually pretty toasty in the month of June (in the Northern Hemisphere, at least) so imagine going to bed in this heat. Feel the spray of the refreshing tsunami water in your dream as the turkey continues to ride those tsunami waves with his cross.
# | 張 | Stretch | ちょう ; は | Bow + Long | You have a bow and you want to make it long. To do that, you'd naturally just stretch it. Imagine holding this bow in your hands, and then stretching it into a longer bow. Feel the strain on your arms as you try to stretch wood. You can feel it stretching, but it's strenuous. As you stretch the bow, you hear someone running at you. "That's my bow you're stretching!" yells Mrs. Chou (ちょう). She is not happy that you're stretching her things. You should probably try to un-stretch it, put it down, and run before she beats you. Now Mrs. Chou is hitting you with the stretched out bow. You cry and apologize, but she won't listen. "I'm going to stretch you, like you stretched my bow," she says. Then she does it.
# | 優 | Superior, Gentle | ゆう ; やさ, すぐ | Leader + Hundred + Forehead + Heart + Winter | The leader of a hundred foreheads in the heart of winter is superior at being gentle. These hundred foreheads are sensitive, especially in the heart of winter, so the leader must be very gentle. Not just any kind of gentle though—the superior kind of gentle that will keep a hundred foreheads following. As a leader, you are superior. You’re so gentle to these foreheads. See yourself caring for them in the winter. Feel the chill in the air as you wrap the foreheads in blankets and prepare heating pads for them. You need to be superior because all of these foreheads belong to youths (ゆう). They don't know how to take care of themselves, though they try to convince you they can. They're too young to know any better. Picture the youths trying to show you that they are the superior ones, then they sneeze, their eyes fill with tears, and you have to gently tuck them back into bed. Silly youths.
# | 沢 | Swamp | たく ; さわ | Tsunami + Shrimp | A tsunami of shrimp crashes into a swamp. Now the swamp is filled with shrimp. They used to live in the ocean, but the tsunami has carried them to their new home in the swamp. Imagine yourself in the swamp when the tsunami hits. Feel the water crash into you along with the shrimp. You’re all wet and shrimpy now. Your house was right next to the swamp and on this side of your house you had many a tack (たく) there to hang things on. Now, on every tack there is skewered a shrimp. The force of the tsunami drove them into the tacks on the side of your house. Look at the side of your house. It’s covered with shrimp that have been impaled on the tacks. Perfect for dinner.
# | 師 | Teacher, Expert, Master | し | Drop + Bear + Ground + Towel | A drop of water falls from a bear onto the ground and needs to be wiped up with a towel. Only a teacher or an expert could get away with getting close to this wet bear to wipe up after it. The expert is also your teacher, and she's showing you how to clean up after this bear. The teacher tells you to start with something smaller, after all, you're not an expert yet. You have to practice on a wet sheep (し). "I became a wet, dangerous animal expert by starting with sheep, you will too!" your teacher says. Your teacher assures you this wet sheep is far less dangerous to clean up after than a wet bear. They're the expert, so you should listen and wipe up after that sheep.
# | 幹 | Tree Trunk, Ability | かん ; みき | Morning + Hat + Dry | In the morning, if you want your hat to dry, you need to hang it on a tree trunk. In the morning, everything is covered in dew. The grass is wet, the leaves are wet, but the tree trunk isn't wet! It was protected by the rest of the tree, so you can hang your hat there to dry. Picture everything early in the morning covered in damp dew. Even your hat is uncomfortably wet. Now walk up to a large tree trunk and touch it—it's dry! You lean against the tree trunk, waiting for your hat to dry, and suddenly you realize Genghis Khan (かん) is on the other side of it. You look around and see that all of the tree trunks around you have Mongols drying their hats under them. Now that you think about it, Genghis Khan was the one who taught people that tree trunks stay dry in the morning!
# | 看 | Watch Over | かん ; み | Hand + Eye | Put your hand over your eye to watch over others. You know that way cartoon characters and pirates watch out below them, with their hand shading their eye? That! Now imagine doing that right now. As you watch over your friends and neighbors you see movement in the distance. Oh no, it's Genghis Khan (かん) and his army! Welp, nothing much watching over them will do now. Genghis Khan is probably going to take over your town, so I guess you can watch if you want but... I wouldn't.
# | 庁 | Agency, Government Office | ちょう | Canopy + Street | There are people under a canopy on the street forming their own agency. They're banding together right here in the street, making a new government office! Imagine them putting together papers, talking to politicians, and standing in the street outside the capitol. They demand for this agency to be formed. They are doing all the correct, legal things to do it too. This new agency is just starting to make progress when you hear a low rumble... then a screech. "THIS IS MY STREET. NO NEW AGENCIES ON MY STREET!" Mrs. Chou (ちょう) cries as she barrels into everyone. "Whenever you're in a 丁, you're in my territory," she yells, taking out a few agency members with her fists. "You won't be starting any kind of agency here, not on my watch." And she lights it all on fire.
# | 額 | Amount, Framed Picture | がく ; ひたい | Guest + Geoduck | When you're a guest somewhere it's important to bring geoducks. But more than that, the amount of geoducks you bring is really what matters. If you don't have any live geoducks go ahead and bring any amount of framed pictures of geoducks instead. If you're a guest you either have to have the right amount of geoducks or geoducks in framed pictures. Otherwise you're a jerk. Unfortunately, if you mess up the amount or the framed pictures, every other guest will gawk (がく) at you. Feel the feel of hundreds of gawks. Feel ashamed as they gawk at you. How could you!?
# | 腕 | Arm | うで ; わん | Moon + Roof + Evening + Snake | The moon shines on your roof in the evening and a snake suddenly appears! Wait, that's not a snake, it's your arm, sticking out from under the roof. Arms really look like snakes in the moonlight. Picture it. Your arm is long and shiny, just like a snake. Your arm is exposed to the moon and the outside and you feel a chill. Where are your clothes? Ah, you're nude, eh (うで)?! I guess it is pretty common to sleep in the nude, eh? Your arms are nude, eh? That's why they look like snakes, you know. You should be more careful.
# | 境 | Boundary | きょう ; さかい | Dirt + Stand + See | You stand in the dirt and see the boundary. The boundary between your home and your neighbors. The boundary between your town and the next. All you have to do to see it is stand in the dirt. It also helps that there is a boundary sign standing in the dirt that you can also see. Get off your computer and go stand outside in the dirt and see what boundaries you can see. The boundary you're looking at is the Kyoto (きょう) boundary. Kyoto is a really famous, important place, so if you think about it, everything could be the boundary between where you are and Kyoto if you just make them really big. Picture yourself outside of Kyoto. Picture the boundary between you and Kyoto. Now hop over it!
# | 燃 | Burn, Blaze | ねん ; も | Fire + Nature | Fire in nature will burn down everything in its path. In nature, there are no firefighters to contain the flames, so the blaze will burn until nothing's left. Feel the fire all around you as it burns. You're out in nature — the middle of a forest fire. Hear the woods crackle as they burn up around you. What is the worst thing that could burn in this fire? Your nendoroid (ねん) collection. You've spent a lot of time and money collecting all these cool and rare and unique nendoroids and now they've all burned in the fire. Cry your eyes out as you smell the burning plastic of your nendoroids. Worst. Day. Ever.
# | 担 | Carry, Bear | たん ; にな, かつ | Fingers + Dawn | You use your fingers at dawn to carry many things. You have to carry yourself out of bed. You have to carry your backpack or purse or laptop bag to school or work. Your fingers have to carry a lot of weight around at dawn. Think about your morning routine. You carry yourself into the bathroom and carry a toothbrush into your mouth. You carry your coat and bag out the door. Once you're carrying everything, and the dawn sun is shining bright, you start getting tan (たん). Especially those fingers you're using to carry things. Picture yourself carrying a coat and a bag, walking through the rice fields to work, with the hot, dawn sun shining down, making your fingers get tanner and tanner.
# | 祝 | Celebrate | しゅく, しゅう ; いわ | Spirit + Older Brother | If a spirit blesses your older brother it's time to celebrate! This isn't something that happens every day to everyone's older brother. Yours is very good and very lucky. So celebrate with him! Imagine what celebrating would be like. Imagine an older brother too, if you don't actually have one. Unfortunately, the two of you celebrated too much, and you went a little crazy. The spirit grabbed your brother and shook (しゅく) him. Shook him so hard his head popped off. Never celebrate too hard. Otherwise you'll always have to think about the time a celebration spirit shook your brother till his head fell off.
# | 届 | Deliver | とど | Flag + Reason | The American flag is the reason you need to deliver this package. The flag is inside the package, and you need to deliver it to the president. He lost his old flag, so now it’s up to you to deliver this new one to him. What more of a reason do you need? You need to deliver this flag to the president. Imagine yourself running as fast as you can while carrying the parcel in order to get it to him. Your lungs are tired and your legs burn, but you must deliver the flag as soon as possible! To deliver this flag is something you just have to do (とど). Need to do. Want to do. There is no one else to do it. This is something only you are equipped to do. The world depends on you to do this delivery. If you fail, the United States will be ruined. You have to do it! Deliver that flag now! Run! Run!
# | 違 | Different | ちが ; い | Scooter + Korea | You take your scooter to Korea and everything is different! Imagine scooting down a street in Korea and seeing how different literally every single thing is compared to what you're used to in Japan. What's also different is that there's a weird tiger bouncing on its tail alongside you yelling that its name is Tigger (ちが). You didn't know Tigger was living in Korea these days. That's definitely different. Tigger is different in Korea too. For one, he's a white tiger now, and he's, like, really aggressive. Wait, was he always like that?
# | 差 | Distinction | さ ; さ | Sheep + Construction | When a sheep tries its hoof at construction, it gains distinction. Now that is something that really sets a sheep apart! After all, have you ever seen a sheep working in construction? Note that the sheep has to sweep its tail to one side so that it doesn't get in the way of all the construction tools. That's why it looks a little different here. Imagine a sheep in a hard hat, with its tail on one side, getting down to some construction. How very distinctive. The extra distinction of this sheep is that its really skilled with a saw (さ). That's why it's so good at construction. Imagine the sheep holding the saw in its hooves. It isn't easy to grip a saw with hooves, but this is no ordinary sheep.
# | 展 | Expand | てん ; のぶ, のび | Flag + Blackjack + Kick | There’s a flag under the blackjack table that you can kick in order to expand the table. Sometimes you only have a few people playing blackjack so you don’t need to kick the flag at all, and sometimes  there are many people playing blackjack so you need to kick the flag many times in order to expand it to a proper size. Imagine yourself kicking this flag to see the blackjack table expand. Feel your foot kicking the flag. You’ve kicked it so many times that your leg is sore, but you need to expand the table some more so you keep kicking it. Imagine the blackjack table making that sound Mario makes whenever he gets a mushroom and expands in size. The blackjack table does have a limit though of how many times it will expand, and that limit is ten (てん). You can only kick the flag to get the table to expand ten times. Imagine yourself kicking the flag ten times. Count it off in your head and imagine each instance up to ten. Any more kicks after ten don’t cause the table to do anything, but it does cause your leg to get sore.
# | 審 | Judge | しん | Roof + Number | You're about to enter a roof that has your number on it so you can face the judge. You've been sitting here for what feels like hours, waiting for your number to come up. Finally the time has come—the judge will see you now. Picture the judge sitting under the roof. Your number is sitting on his big desk, next to the gavel. The judge is not happy with you. He tells you to come closer and when you do, he takes his gavel and hits you in the shins (しん). Ouch! You try to ask the judge what his ruling is, but he just hits you on the shins again!
# | 層 | Layer | そう | Flag + Mask | Behind the flag lies a mask—yet another layer of secrecy. You’re standing in front of a crowd, giving a rousing speech. Hiding your face is the flag of your country, and behind that flag you’re also wearing a mask, just in case the flag falls down. The extra layer of secrecy is just to be safe. These layers are meant to protect you. We all have layers we hide behind sometimes, you know? You can't be totally transparent with everyone. Someone jumps up on stage and starts peeling off your layers! You stand there, first goes the flag, then the mask, then ... your soul (そう) is laid bare. No, literally. You don't have a body, your soul was under that mask. And now it's floating there for all to see. Everyone in the crowd is completely silent, staring at your soul, with all of its layers peeled off.
# | 視 | Look At | し ; み | Spirit + See | When you see a spirit you have to look at it. Look at it directly, because if you look away then it could disappear. You just have to keep on looking at it deliberately. Look at the spirit. Look at its shape and into its eyes. Just don't look away. You look at the spirit for as long as you can, until you hear a sheep (し) sound. You look away for a second, see the sheep look at you, and when you look back the spirit is gone. Damn! Now you have to look at this sheep. Maybe the sheep was projecting the spirit... or maybe it's just a sheep. You'll have to look at it a bit longer to know for sure.
# | 環 | Loop | かん | King + Net + Zombie | The king is showing his people how to put a net around a weird zombie by walking around it in a loop. It's a weird zombie because it has the ground on top of its head instead of dirt. Watch as the king loops the net around and around and around the zombie, keeping it completely pinned down. The king also explains that this loop technique was used by Genghis Khan (かん) when he was conquering cities. He'd loop around the entire place with a net and trap them. Picture Genghis Khan looping around and around just like the king is looping around and around this zombie.
# | 製 | Manufacture | せい | Control + Clothes | In an attempt to control your clothes, you manufacture a mind control device. This mind control device will allow you to control the mind of your clothes and all that they do. You just need to manufacture it. Imagine being able to control your clothes with your mind. What would you have them do? Imagine what you would do with your clothes if you could manufacture something to control them and move them around at will with your mind. You manufacture these clothes to control your saber (せい). It's hard to manufacture, you have to do a lot of work, but you manage to make your clothes control your saber. Now you don't need to rely on your hands! Now you're trying to manufacture a machine that will make sabers and clothes you can use to control them. Soon you'll have a manufactured army of saber-controlling clothes!
# | 述 | Mention | じゅつ ; の | Scooter + Angel + Drop | On this scooter, there's an angel with a drop of sweat coming off of it, because it forgot to mention something to you! It seems like it's something important too, since they're sweating so much. The angel just visited you, but it forgot to mention something important (probably life-threatening, it's an angel after all), and now you see it scooting at top speeds toward you. "I forgot to mention, you have to study ninjutsu (じゅつ)!" the angel yells. But it's too late, there are ninjas jumping out of the bushes around you and taking you hostage. The angel really should have mentioned ninjutsu earlier. Then maybe you would have gone straight to a dojo to learn instead of falling into a ninjutsu trap yourself. The angel definitely failed its mission.
# | 武 | Military | ぶ, む ; たけ | Ground + Ceremony + Stop | On the ground there's a ceremony where everyone keeps stopping. This stopping ceremony is being performed by the military. They'll march one direction, then stop and turn, then march another direction, then stop again. The military really seems to have a thing for stopping a lot during their ceremonies. You look closer at the people in the military and realize that every time they stop they take a drink of booze (ぶ)! This is a ceremony for celebrating the military so I guess they can drink as much booze as they want, but this seems very strange to you.
# | 型 | Model, Type | けい ; かた | Lantern + Knife + Dirt | There is a lantern on top of a knife in the dirt. You walk up to take the knife and lantern when you realize it's just a model. It all looked real from far away, but now that you're up close you can see none of it is real. Why would anyone make a model that looks like a lantern and a knife sticking into the ground? You touch the model and see that it's made of cake (けい)! Someone really into lanterns and knives must have been given this model cake as a birthday present! Though they left it out here so they probably didn't like it. Haven't you seen any of those crazy cakes modeled after things like movies, towns, giants hams, and purses? They're all the rage. Next time you make a cake try to make it look like a model lantern and knife with fake cake dirt and everything.
# | 狭 | Narrow | せま, せば ; きょう | Animal + Husband + Horns | You have an animal for a husband with horns that are narrow. This animal husband of yours is a goat. A goat with narrow horns. Why is this animal your husband? You’re weird, that’s why. Imagine yourself married to this animal husband with horns that are narrow. It’s a strange marriage. Listen to the goat making its goat noises as it clomps around your home. Now hug your goat husband and feel its soft fluffy coat against your skin. I’m not even going to get into the semantics (せま) of how this weird relationship of yours works. Nope, this reading explanation is on the straight and narrow. Need to know basis. Classified. All that junk. There will be no discussion of the semantics between you and your goat lover. But that doesn’t mean you can’t imagine the semantics. The finer points of the relationship. Go ahead, imagine all the weird stuff that comes with the territory for having a goat as a husband. Use all that weird stuff to remember this kanji and its reading. Want an example? Just imagine the goat doing dishes! Goats don’t have hands! Hahahahaha!!
# | 管 | Pipe | かん ; くだ | Bamboo + Roof + Bear | On your bamboo roof is a bear. It is pulling the bamboo off, because it wants to use it to make a long pipe. Bamboo is great for pipes, and the only place for the bear to get it is your roof. So, that's why it's there. The pipe will be for Genghis Khan (かん), who would like some pipes for his house. Watch the bear take away your bamboo. Follow it to Genghis Khan's house. There, the bear installs the pipe in Genghis Khan's bathroom.
# | 載 | Place On, Put On | さい ; の | Cross + Drunkard + Car | You have a cross for a drunkard's car, to place on its dashboard. Drunkards should not drive, and when you put on a cross, it prevents the car from starting! Imagine the power that starts emanating from the cross once it’s placed on the car, it can’t move even an inch. Nope, it's not going anywhere until its owner sobers up. You have a lot of crosses to place on drunkard cars, so you get your cyborg (さい) to do it for you. The cyborg doesn't need sleep, so it can patrol the streets 24/7 for the sake of public safety. What a saintly cyborg. Picture your cyborg, approaching a drunkard's car to place a cross on it. You see it open a big compartment on its chest, and it's filled with crosses.
# | 質 | Quality | しつ, しち | Axe + Shellfish | You have to use two axes to open these shellfish. That seems like overkill, but it is necessary. These particular shellfish are of very high quality meaning they won't open so easily. Imagine the highest quality shellfish you've ever seen. They're hard, smooth, and basically impenetrable. You finally get all of the shellfish open and you're admiring their quality, when your shih tzu (しつ) jumps up on the table and gobbles them down. NO! You try to chase after the little dog, but it's too late. They're gone. I guess your shih tzu knows good quality shellfish too. :(
# | 量 | Quantity, Amount | りょう ; はか | Dawn + Village | When dawn reaches this village it increases in quantity. That's right. Every morning the amount of people or animals living here goes up by at least one. Picture dawn, the sun rising, the birds chirping, and the screams of a new born baby rise in the village. Or Maybe it's a new sheep! Or a new hat that someone just finished making. Today's dawn has brought with it an increase in the quantity of row(りょう) boats! Aww, aren't they cute? Look at all of the new row boats lined up together. They all have their own sets of oars too. When every dawn brings a new amount of people, those new people are going to need that same amount of row boats.
# | 販 | Sell | はん | Shellfish + Anti | If you're anti-shellfish, then you won't mind if I sell them all. You don't want them in your house anyway! if you're serious about being anti-shellfish then you should sell all the ones you have, or let me do it at least. I'm going to sell all of our shellfish to Han (はん) Solo. He isn't anti-shellfish like you, he knows how to turn a profit too! Picture me (hi) selling all of your shellfish to Han Solo as you stand there with your arms crossed. Han just shakes his head at you and continues to toss them onto his space ship.
# | 供 | Servant, Companion | きょう ; とも, そな | Leader + Together | A leader is always together with their servant. The servant is their constant companion, always following close behind the leader, offering them hot towels and bottled water. Try to picture the servant without the leader... you can't! The servant and the leader are always together. Once a year, when the servant wants to go home to きょうと, the leader follows. The servant isn't just there for the leader, they're companions, they support each other at all times. Even if that means heading home to きょうと to see the fam. Picture the servant enjoying tea and cherry blossoms in きょうと with their family as the leader sits patiently off to the side. What a good relationship these two have!
# | 肩 | Shoulder | かた ; けん | Door + Moon | The door leading to the moon can be broken down with one’s shoulder. It’s not a very sturdy door to the moon, so it’s quite easy to drop your shoulder and ram it open. Picture yourself smashing through this door using your shoulder and seeing the moon on the other side. Hear the splintering of wood as your shoulder crashes through the door and feel the impact with your body. "Wow, your shoulder is just like my catapult (かた)!" you hear someone shout. As you turn you're just in time to see a man catapulting through his own moon door! Now the weird man is inspecting your shoulder really closely and he keeps muttering "catapult powers" under his breath. It's very unsettling, but he's kind of right. A shoulder works just like the mechanism that winds up a catapult.
# | 規 | Standard | き | Husband + See | A man who is husband material can see a standard woman and think she’s the greatest thing ever. This man will make a great husband. Even though the lady is pretty standard, the husband treats her like she’s anything but. This husband sets a new standard for what it means to be a husband. He’s pretty great. Imagine yourself shaking this husband’s hand because he’s so awesome. It’s pretty standard for a husband and wife to exchange vows when getting married, and the husband said this girl held the key (き) to his heart. She unlocked the husband’s heart with the key and now he’s a man made whole. Picture this woman actually sticking a physical key into the husband’s chest and turning it. Now this is anything but standard, but it’ll help you remember this kanji and its reading.
# | 株 | Stock, Share | かぶ ; しゅ | Tree + Slide + Jet | What might cause a tree to slide down a jet would be if its stocks and shares took a dive in the market. This tree was on a jet for an important investor meeting when it got the news that its stocks and shares had just plummeted. Being very upset, the tree got up and got on the emergency slide out of the jet and plummeted into the ground just like his stocks and shares. Visualize this tree sliding out of the jet and falling to his doom. As he falls, visualize red lines falling alongside him to represent the stocks and shares. Hear the shrill whistle of them speeding through the air to the ground. Once the tree hits the ground with his stocks and his shares, the impact creates a large KABOOM (かぶ)! Stocks hit the ground - KABOOM! Shares! KABOOM! Tree! KABOOOOOOM~! Listen to each of these things impact the ground and see each individual mushroom cloud appear around them. KABOOM! KABOOM! KABOOM!
# | 触 | Touch | しょく ; さわ, ふ | Angle + Insect | If, at a certain angle, you approach an insect, you’ll be able to touch it without it noticing. Most of the time, insects will run away from you when you try and touch them, but if you do so from the right angle, the insect will have no idea. Imagine yourself approaching this insect from a sneaky and stealthy angle. Now touch it. What does it feel like? Smooth? Hard? Fuzzy? Feel the insect in your mind as you touch it. Uh oh, looks like this particular insect is a lightning bug so when you touch it you get a shock (しょく). Did you know that lightning bugs contain bazillions of volts inside them? Well they do, and if you touch one, you get a shock. A very big shock. Feel this electrical shock to your system as you touch the lightning bug. This discourages you from ever touching another insect again. You don’t enjoy the shock.
# | 輸 | Transport | ゆ | Car + Death Star | What does a car and the Death Star have in common? They're both used to transport people and things. Imagine stuffing a bunch of Stormtroopers in your car so you can transport them across the country. Well the Death Star can transport even more Stormtroopers, faster, and through space! Right now you and the Death Star are transporting yurts (ゆ). They're the universe's #1 best transportable homes! It's easy to transport a yurt even without a car or the Death Star.
# | 腰 | Waist | こし ; よう | Moon + Helicopter + Woman | You're flying a helicopter and you see a woman in the moon light touching her waist. She has both hands on her waist, like she's Wonder Woman or something. But it's the middle of the night. What is she doing? Imagine flying your helicopter closer to the woman, it's not so hard because you have lots of moon light to see in, and try to see why she's touching her waist. As you get closer you realize her waist looks weird and... puffy? You bring the helicopter down and see that the woman's waist looks incredibly cozy (こし)! She has a blanket balled up and tied around her waist, she's holding it there with her hand, probably because it's cold out at night. But even with just her waist covered, she looks so warm and cozy! Imagine how cozy your waist would be if you tied a nice warm blanket around it.
# | 慣 | Accustomed | かん ; な | Soul + Window + Shellfish | If you could just get your soul to open the window to shellfish, you'll grow accustomed to them sooner or later! I know shellfish are a bit of an acquired taste, but if you don't open that window, you'll never like them! Close your eyes and picture your soul. Now your soul is opening a little window inside of you that is the perfect size for shellfish of all kinds. Hopefully with exposure and acceptance you'll grow accustomed to them. You'll need to become accustomed to eating shellfish if you want to grow up big and strong like Genghis Khan (かん). He didn't have shellfish growing up either you know, he had to grow accustomed to their taste too, but look how successful he was! Force yourself to get accustomed to shellfish like Genghis Khan, then maybe you'll rule most of the planet someday.
# | 居 | Alive | きょ ; い | Flag + Old | The flag is old but that doesn't mean it's not still alive. This is a living flag, and it gets old just like other living things. Imagine the old flag with a face and mouth and eyes and nose... it talks and listens and everything else. It's a flag that's alive D: The flag that is old and alive is actually a Buddhist relic (that's why it's alive, in fact ... and old!). But, it's a really dumb relic, so it's put in Little Kyoto (きょ). Not as cool as a real relic, it's put in this dumb Little Kyoto shrine that's basically just a tourist attraction. Eh, whatever.
# | 逮 | Apprehend | たい | Scooter + Wolverine + Water | Your scooter's been stolen by a wolverine, who's now getting water all over it. You need to apprehend that wolverine! Not only did the wolverine steal your scooter, but it is getting your poor scooter all wet by riding it through puddles. Now you and all the cops are chasing the wolverine down on police scooters and you're going to apprehend it! You catch up with the wolverine and apprehend it by tying it down with the tie (たい) from around your neck! It's a really nice tie you use to apprehend the wolverine, so even though it's struggling and fighting, it can't get away.
# | 票 | Ballot | ひょう | Helicopter + Jackhammer | You have to fly in a helicopter and use a jackhammer to punch your ballot. The helicopter gets you far away from prying eyes, and the jackhammer makes you really try for whoever you're voting for on that thing. It's foolproof! Imagine trying to fill out your ballot while flying in a helicopter and using only a jackhammer to do it. Do you think you could do it? Do you think you could do it AND vote for the right person? While using the jackhammer on the ballot, the helicopter pilot keeps yelling “Heyo (ひょう), don't mess up! Heyo! Watch out, don't let me see!” as he flies the helicopter all over the place. You're starting to think this method of filling out ballots is rigged.
# | 属 | Belong | ぞく | Flag + Mantis | You see a mantis sitting on a flag and you know for a fact that it does not belong there. Insects should be in trees and on the ground. Not on flags. Insects belong in the wild! Look at that mantis, pretending it belongs here. What are you gonna do about it? Luckily for you, and unluckily for this mantis who doesn't belong on your flag, you're a Bosozoku (ぞく) bike gang member, and you don't take crap from nobody. You climb the flagpole, punch the mantis and yell, "YOU DON'T BELONG HERE!" Your Bosozoku life has prepared you for this moment. Those who don't belong, shall be punished, you think to yourself.
# | 捉 | Catch | とら ; そく | Fingers + Foot | Use your fingers to grab this guy's foot and catch him! Not physically though, you do grab his foot, but you close your eyes, and catch the idea of him in your mind just by touching your fingers to his foot. You don't really like the idea of touching your fingers to someone's foot, so you do it ever so slightly, and only catch the gist of what it's like. As you touch his foot, you catch a glimpse of the Torah (とら) in your mind. Suddenly, you are able to grasp and understand every single thing written in the Torah. You fall to the ground. You wipe your eyes and look up, seeing that the person running from you is wearing socks with little pictures of the Torah on them. You were able to catch that in your brain but not the person. You must have touched those Torah socks and not his foot. You've been tricked!
# | 捕 | Catch | ほ ; つか, とら | Fingers + Wedding | At your wedding you use your fingers to catch the wedding rings. And to catch the bouquet. And to catch the rice that everyone is throwing at you, ow, ow, hey stop! Weddings are really more about catching things than they are about whoever is standing across from you. Imagine being at a wedding and getting to catch a ton of things in your fingers. You're having a good time catching things until it's cleanup time and someone throws a hoe (ほ) at you. First of all, ow again, that was your face. Second, this is your wedding. You aren't supposed to have to hoe it all up. You're supposed to drop everything you caught and leave! Picture yourself grumpily hoeing all the things you couldn't catch, and the dirt under it, and putting it into a big dumpster.
# | 候 | Climate, Weather, Candidate | こう ; そうろう | Leader + Stick + Hook + Arrow | A leader with a stick, a hook, and an arrow is able to change the climate and weather. Not just the type of climate that causes sunny and rainy days though, the political climate too, because they're a political candidate too. Imagine this leader twirling his stick around with his hook so quickly it changes the actual weather. Then he shoots it into the sky with an arrow, changing the actual climate itself. Who is this climate and weather-changing candidate leader with the hook, stick, and arrow? It's none other than こういち. Ask こういち why he's changing the climate. He says more people do their WaniKani reviews when it's raining, so he decided to create climate change to make it more dangerous to go outside. "This way, people will stay indoors and do their WaniKani reviews," he tells you.
# | 輩 | Comrade | はい | Criminal + Car | The criminal that stole your car was your comrade! You thought the two of you were friends, but you were probably wrong. Just because someone is your comrade doesn't mean they actually like you. Don't let your guard down and let them near your car. You feel really weird about this whole situation so you write your comrade a haiku (はい). It's really all you can do, since your car is long gone. Comrade, what the heck, I want to get my car back, I thought we were friends.
# | 況 | Condition | きょう | Tsunami + Older Brother | There’s a tsunami coming and your older brother is in no condition to escape. Your older brother has brittle bone syndrome so there’s no way he’ll be able to escape the tsunami in time in his condition. Imagine your poor brother and the condition he is in. His glass bones and paper skin make it impossible for him to move very fast. Imagine the sad face he makes when he realizes his fate. His condition gets worse and you have to travel all the way to his home in きょうと to get him out. This is also, incidentally, where the tsunami's condition is the worst, so you better get to きょうと quick!
# | 涼 | Cool | すず ; りょう | Tsunami + Capital | A tsunami causes the capital to become very cool. The capital was already a pretty cool temperature, but with the addition of the water from the tsunami, the capital is now very cool. Imagine being in the capital. The tsunami hits and now you are all wet. You are also very cool because the water is not warm. You are cool and wet. How sad. You find out that the cool tsunami water is coming from Sue Zoo (すず). The only animal there is a penguin named Sue, so the Sue Zoo is always kept cool for her. But now that Sue's fountain broke, the cool water is everywhere! Time to sue the zoo… You're still feeling pretty cool and wet when another wave courses by. You see Sue surfing on it, screaming at the top of her lungs, "FREEDOM!!! NOW EVERYWHERE IS SUE ZOO!!!"
# | 響 | Echo, Reverberation, Resound | きょう ; ひび | Poop + Root + Building + Sound | If you poop on the roots of a building, the sound will echo all the way through the building, and each and every person in there will know what you did. Hear the poop echo. You know what a poop usually sounds like, now imagine that sound again, but louder and with an echo. How could anyone not notice? The echo doesn't stop there, this building's roots extend throughout the entire city of きょうと. The echo reverberates and soon everyone in きょうと is listening, horrified, to your poop. Welp. きょうと knows you pooped. That will echo through your memories for the rest of your life. I hope you're happy.
# | 効 | Effective | こう ; き | Mix + Power | If you mix different types of power you'll produce something effective. It doesn't matter what power you mix, because all power is strong. No matter what you use this mixed power on, it will be effective. Imagine some situations where you mix power with power. The most effective mix of two powers is two こういちs. Take one, mix it with another, and you have something with immeasurable power. You use it to attack that animal-like creature. It's super effective! こういちs punch attack was super effective against that Pikurchort.
# | 莫 | Endless | ばく | Greenhouse | You have a greenhouse that is endless. Imagine your endless greenhouse, which goes on and on, as far as the eye can see. Lucky you. What will you grow in your endless greenhouse? Imagine all your favourite flowers and foods growing endlessly in your endless greenhouse. Your flowers have grown so big that now the only way you can fit into your endless greenhouse is by lying on your back (ばく). Imagine yourself lying on your back in your greenhouse under a canopy of great big flowers, tending to them as they grow even bigger.
# | 絶 | Extinction, Die Out | ぜつ ; た | Thread + Color | Sometime in the future, thread of every color will be faced with extinction. Eventually there will be nothing else to make thread out of, and thread of every kind and color will reach extinction. Imagine what the world would be like without thread. No thread of any color. How would you fix tears in clothes or make new ones? It would be a strange world where thread is extinct. The extinction of thread was brought on by a very strange thing. Deadly zits (ぜつ). These zits killed off all the producers of thread, and eventually the thread went extinct. Dang zits. Pretend you have deadly zits. They’re everywhere, not just your face. You can’t pop them or you’ll die, but they’re all bulging and extremely painful. Now you’re facing extinction. Lousy.
# | 鮮 | Fresh | せん ; あざ | Sheep + Fish | The fish and sheep are very fresh here. This is a great place to get fresh fish and fresh sheep. I kid you not. Imagine eating this fresh fish and fresh sheep. It’s the freshest you’ve ever tasted. Taste it on your tongue and experience how fresh it is. This place also serves fresh centaur (せん), but that’s just weird. Centaur is endangered and you don’t believe in eating endangered things. Even if they are incredibly fresh. Can you imagine eating a fresh centaur? How weird would that be? Half of it is human-like, so you’d be like, a half cannibal. Weird, huh?
# | 満 | Full | まん ; み | Tsunami + Flowers + Both | If a tsunami hits these flowers they'll both become full of water. Tsunamis carry a lot of water, definitely enough to make both of these flowers full. Picture both of these little flowers, happily swaying in the breeze. Then the tsunami comes, leaves, and you look back and their little cup-heads are full to the brim with water. As you stare at the full flowers, you decide to write a manga (まん) about them. Your head is full of manga ideas! Soon you have full color pages, full of stories about both of these tsunami-filled flowers and their adventures together. And when you're done, your heart is full as well. Awwww.
# | 与 | Give | よ ; あた | Beggar + Ground | A beggar lies sprawled on the ground so you give him some money. You feel bad for the beggar on the ground, so that’s why you decided to give him something. See the beggar on the ground. He’s writhing in agony and moaning for help. Imagine how sad and pitiful he looks. When you set the money down next to the beggar he shouts, “No! I want a yo-yo (よ)!” so you go to the corner store and buy him a yo-yo with the money instead. You give the yo-yo to the beggar and he looks very happy. Now watch as the beggar plays with the yo-yo you just gave him. He’s actually pretty good with it. See the beggar doing insane tricks with his new yo-yo as passersby give him change for his impressive yo-yo performance.
# | 掛 | Hang | か ; かい, けい | Fingers + Dirt + Toe | Somebody got dirt on your fingers and dirt on your toes so you're going to hang them upside-down and slap them with your dirty extremities. If someone got dirt all up in your finger and toe business wouldn't you want to hang them too? You have this person hanging upside-down but they don't seem to be suffering enough, so you hit them with your car (か). No mercy. Don't get dirt on me, buddy. Or I'll hang you upside-down and hit you with my car. Then you'll be sorry.
# | 隠 | Hide | いん ; かく | Building + Cleat + Wolverine + Heart | Behind a building, a cleat-wearing wolverine is holding his heart and trying to hide. You know the phrase, "You can run, but you can't hide?" This wolverine can't run anymore so he's trying to hide (even though he knows it probably won't work). The wolverine looks up at the building he's trying to hide behind and sees it's an inn (いん). Lucky wolverine! Inns are good for hiding. The staff isn't supposed to give out his room number, and there are tons of different rooms for him to hide in.
# | 模 | Imitation | も, ぼ | Tree + Greenhouse | A tree grows next to a greenhouse enclosing an imitation of the tree. The imitation greenhouse tree wants to be big and impressive like the tree outside, so it does its very best imitation of a real tree. Look at this greenhouse tree struggle to grow big and strong like the wild tree outside. Hear its leaves shake and timber creak. How cute. The greenhouse tree realizes that its imitation will never be as good as the real thing. When it realizes this, the tree moans (も) aloud. The tree is still kinda tiny, so the moan isn’t very loud, but it is still pretty strange to witness. Speaking of witnesses, Bobo (ぼ) the clown sees this greenhouse tree moaning and decides to take it for his next clown show. Surely this miniature moaning tree can be worked into Bobo's next clown act. Hear the little tree moaning at its pitiful imitation of a real tree. The greenhouse tree sounds very sad and you actually start to feel bad for it. Moan along with the tree in sympathy.
# | 含 | Include | がん ; ふく | Now + Mouth | Now your mouth can include more words than ever before! With our new and improved “Mouth Now!” program, your mouth will include more words than you ever thought possible! Imagine how your repertoire of new words will impress all your friends and family. Don’t include them on your secret that you used the Mouth Now! program, just feel super smart with all the words you now know. If you buy now, we’ll also include a handful of books by Gandhi (がん) himself. Gandhi didn’t use our program, but we’re sure if he’d had the opportunity to, he would have used it. So buy now, and get the words of Gandhi in your hands as well as your mouth! Since you bought the program, you also got the Gandhi books included with your order. Imagine yourself reading them and learning all about non-violent resistance. Fascinating.
# | 訟 | Lawsuit | しょう | Say + Public | Be careful what you say in public, otherwise you might face a lawsuit. People will sue you for just about anything these days, so you really need to watch what you say in public, otherwise you might find yourself with a lawsuit on your hands. Think of all the things you could say in public that could get you stuck dealing with a lawsuit. Oh my gosh! How dare you think those things?! You're lucky you didn't say them out loud in public, or I'd file a lawsuit against you myself! Any and all lawsuits need to be brought before the Shougun (しょう). Oh, you thought you'd get a judge or a jury? Nope, the Shougun decides your fate. You better hope what you said wasn't about the Shougun, or he's really going to use this lawsuit to destroy you.
# | 限 | Limit | げん ; かぎ | Building + Root | A building's roots will limit the things under and around it. Picture the roots of a building: metal beams going into the ground. Now imagine trying to build something like a subway under there. It's not good! The building limits what can go under it. The person who hates these limits more than anyone else is Genji (げん). He wants to be able to tunnel under buildings, sneak in, smooch ladies, and sneak back out. But all the building root limits make that impossible! Picture Genji tunneling under a building where a cute lady lives. He's trying to get in, but the building roots limit how far he can dig. No! Now how will he steal a secret kiss?!
# | 肥 | Obese | ひ ; こ, こえ | Moon + Bed | A moon who stays in bed all day every day will soon become obese. A healthy moon needs movement and exercise to stay fit and not become obese. If a moon stays in bed all day, they’ll be sure to grow obese over time. Imagine this moon in bed, slowly getting bigger and bigger, becoming more obese every day. Hear the sound of the bed creaking and cracking as the moon grows larger and larger. Since the obese moon is in bed all day, and since the moon stays pretty cold, she needs some extra heat (ひ) to stay warm. A heated blanket should do the trick. Imagine the obese moon cozied up in bed with a heated blanket and hot cocoa.
# | 豊 | Plentiful, Abundant | ほう ; ゆた; とよ | Music + Beans | Music beans make farts plentiful. And lucky for you, you have an abundant stock of these music beans, so you can eat plenty of them to power your musical bean toots. Imagine dancing to your own plentiful bean music as you gorge on the abundant stock of beans. Your music bean farts are too plentiful to leave your home (ほう). If you tried to leave your home you'd definitely fart all over people outside, so you keep your plentiful farts to yourself. Be polite! Keep your plentiful farts at home.
# | 栄 | Prosper, Flourish | えい ; さか | Viking + Tree | A Viking with enough trees will prosper. Vikings need trees to build their boats and homes, and they flourish when they have enough. Picture a village of Vikings, flourishing and prospering because they live right on the edge of a forest they can just hack away at whenever they need a new ship. Vikings knew that in order to prosper they also needed to collect acorns (えい). If you're chopping down trees all the time, you need to actively grow them back too. That's why acorns are the actual, secret key to Viking prosperity. Picture a bunch of kid Vikings planting acorns in rows and watching them flourish and grow into big trees that they can cut down to keep up their Viking ways.
# | 抜 | Pull Out | ぬ ; ばつ, はつ, はい | Fingers + Friend | Touch your fingers to your friend to pull out their friendship. Pull it out with a high five. Pull it out with a back rub. Pull it out with an, "Oh no, there's some lint on your shirt, let me get that for you." REMINDER: You are not allowed to touch your friends without their permission. If they say no to you pulling out their friendship, then you don't get to pull out their friendship. End of story. Your friend looks you in the eye and says, I want you to pull out my hair. I want my head to be nude (ぬ). Now you have to use your fingers on your friend to pull out their hair and make their head all nude. REMINDER: If someone asks you to pull out their hair to help them achieve a nude head, you don't have to do it unless you want to! Choices and respect, people!
# | 替 | Replace, Exchange | か ; たい | Husband + Sun | A husband marries a husband while the sun goes down and the men replace their solitary lives with one of everlasting companionship. Instead of one husband and one wife, we have two husbands here. They shed their lives of bachelorhood and replace it with one of monogamy. See these two husbands as the sun sets under them. Listen to them each saying their vows, expressing how they could never replace one another. After the ceremony, the husband and his husband get in a car (か) and drive off into the sunset. They’ll never be able to replace this memory with anything. Truly it is the happiest day of these husbands’ lives. See the husbands driving off into the sunset in their car. Hear the engine rumble as the car speeds off into the distance.
# | 給 | Salary | きゅう ; たま | Thread + Suit | Your threads have to suit you if you want a good salary. No one is going to give you a salary if your clothes don't suit you. You have to look professional! When you see someone wearing a fancy suit that suits them, don't you wonder about how much their salary is? Your salary is paid in cucumbers (きゅう). Maybe you shouldn't have worn that cucumber tie when you interviewed for this job, even though it suited you well. Imagine your salary being paid in cucumbers. Open that sweet paycheck and watch the cucumbers come tumbling out.
# | 景 | Scene | けい | Sun + Capital | The sun rises over the capital, creating a scene of breathtaking beauty. The sun is bright and warm as it crests over the capital. It’s quite the scene to behold. Picture this scene in your mind. Squint as the sun shines in your eyes, and feel its warmth as it rises up over the capital. The only way to make this scene better would be to add cake (けい). Now that you think about it, as the sun rises and frosts the capital with light, the buildings start to look like big, shiny cakes. Picture this scene again, but this time the sun is making the buildings of the capital look like big, fancy cakes. Now take a bite!
# | 巻 | Scroll | かん ; ま, まき | Gladiator + Oneself | A gladiator only sees himself (oneself) on those big scrolls they advertise the fights with. Gladiators don't get mirrors and there are no cameras or videos yet. The scroll drawings are all they get of themselves. Imagine being a gladiator. Your big fight is coming and you're the  main event! Look at the scroll for the fight and try to find yourself. When you look at the scroll you realize... you look just like Genghis Khan (かん)! You excitedly fist pump and start showing everyone how cool you are. After a while of showing off the scroll, someone finally pulls you aside and says, "That guy isn't you, it's the real Genghis Khan. He's coming to the event and he's against you. So. Nice knowing you." Oh.
# | 捜 | Search | そう ; さが | Fingers + Humble + Stool | You want to get your fingers on the humble stool, so you dedicate your life to search for it. Wait, the humble stool? You know, like the holy grail or the ark of the covenant, but it's called the humble stool. It's from some bible or something, I promise. Now you have to search through a bunch of religious texts for this humble stool with your fingers. Don't go too fast and get paper cuts! You search and you search and, unfortunately, you spend your entire life searching and you die without finding the humble stool. But don't worry, your soul (そう) comes back and now you get to continue your search but with afterlife powers! You dedicated your soul to searching, and now that your soul is free from its body, you can continue the search until you find it!
# | 構 | Set Up, Care | こう ; かま | Tree + Lifeguard | A tree is what a lifeguard uses to set up the station where he'll care for the people on the beach and in the water. Trees provide the shade lifeguards need to take care of half-drowned kids and grannies with sand stuck in their bathing suits. That's why they set up their care stations here. Watch the lifeguard walk around the beach. He needs to pick a nice big tree for his set up, so he can provide the best care possible. You look closer at the set up and realize the lifeguard is こういち! You know he teaches Japanese but... is こういち really qualified to care for people like this? Imagine こういち setting up a care station. You hope you don't get in trouble in the water so you don't have to see how good he is at caring for people. Hint: when you see the "lifeguard" radical, the reading is probably going to be こう.
# | 影 | Shadow | えい ; かげ | Sun + Capital + Hair | The sun rises over the capital, shines down on your hair, and casts a long shadow on the ground in front of you. Feel the heat of the sun on your back as you look down over your capital, your long hair blowing over your shoulder. Your shadow stretches in front of you and it's honestly pretty impressive. In the shade from your shadow you see a small acorn (えい) laying on the ground. You're about to reach down and pick it up when you realize that your shadow is keeping this little acorn from growing up big and strong. What do you do? Keep standing here, admiring the view and casting this shadow on the acorn. Or do you move and let the acorn grow, becoming a tree that can cast its own shadow on your capital.
# | 絞 | Strangle | こう ; し, しぼ | Thread + Mix | A thread is mixed all around and begins to strangle you. Just imagine thread everywhere, mixing in with everything. It's all around, and no matter where you go you get more and more caught in this thread. Eventually it tightens because you're trying to escape, and you feel yourself having trouble breathing. Imagine the moment when you realize you're getting strangled. As you are strangled you see who set this trap. (What else could it be, with all this thread everywhere?) It is こういち, who just watches you as you lose consciousness, tapping his fingers together. In your final moments before you are totally strangled, you think you see a little thread come out of his butt. "I should have done my WaniKani reviews" is your last thought.
# | 訴 | Sue | そ ; うった | Say + Axe + Drop | You say you have an axe with a drop of blood on it. You hit someone with that axe and now they're going to sue you. That drop of blood on your axe is pretty incriminating, which is why they have enough of a case to sue you. Imagine being unable to stop yourself from saying "I have the axe with the drop on it!" and the recently axed person jumps out from behind a bush and shouts, "Aha! I'm gonna sue you!" You want to sue them back so you clean the axe with some soap (そ). "Your honor," you say in court, "I don't see any drops of blood, I countersue!" The person you axed cries and tries desperately to find their blood on the axe so they can keep suing you properly. You hold the soap behind your back and cackle.
# | 補 | Supplement | ほ ; おぎな | Spirit + Wedding | There is a spirit at your wedding. It's there as a supplement to the guests because not enough people came. It's weird that you supplemented your wedding guests with a spirit or two, but even if you hadn't invited them, they may have showed up anyway. Along with the spirits to supplement your wedding guests, you made everyone carry a hoe (ほ). That way no one had to bring a date, they carry a garden hoe as a supplement and no one feels bad about being dateless. Everyone is! Maybe you should supplement your wedding with other things next time... instead of spirits and garden hoes.
# | 渡 | Transit | わた ; と | Tsunami + Yurt + Stool | A tsunami carries your yurt and you on a stool under it away. You are now in transit. Imagine being carried away on your stool by the tsunami, with your entire yurt floating around you too. You're both in transit... to somewhere. You don't know where though. The transit of yourself and your yurt home is due to the water (わた). This is water transit. You hope the tsunami's water will drop you off somewhere nice. Somewhere it's easy to jump on a different kind of mass transit, to get back home again.
# | 接 | Adjoin | せつ ; つ | Fingers + Stand + Woman | You stand with another woman and, with your fingers, adjoin yourselves together. You are united, you are one. Look around you. Other women are adjoining their fingers and standing with you. There's hundreds, no, thousands of you standing together. All of the women who are now adjoining together are in sets (せつ). Sets of two, of course. One woman with another woman, standing in unison. Picture a bunch of women protesting together. They're holding hands in sets, adjoined together.
# | 再 | Again | さ, さい ; ふたた | Ground + Head + Dirt | Under the ground, a head covered in dirt emerges... again! It's not the first time you've seen this buried head, nor is it the last. This dirt-covered head hides beneath the ground wherever you go, and keeps popping up to scare you again and again. Picture the dirt-covered head popping up again and again. How can it move under the ground like that if it's just a head? You decide to get closer this time, and for once it speaks: "Get me out of the ground!" The dirt-covered head asks for help again and again, but you've only got a saw (さ). So you start digging with it, scraping the dirt away, until you see this head has the body of a cyborg (さい)! Imagine how dirty you and your saw are after all this. At least you could help this cyborg with your saw. "Thanks again," it says, then runs off shaking the dirt out of its hair.
# | 独 | Alone | どく ; ひと | Animal + Insect | There once was an animal with an insect friend who felt very alone unless he was around. An animal and an insect are an unlikely pairing, but these two get along delightfully and hate to be alone without the other. Imagine this animal and this insect. Let’s say it’s a flea and a dog. Imagine them going everywhere together. To the park, getting ice cream, even the drive in movie theater. They’re inseparable. One activity that the animal can never do alone is solve Sudoku (どく) puzzles. The insect always has to help him out with them, and together they are an unstoppable Sudoku solving team. Picture this animal with the insect on his head doing a Sudoku. See the insect hopping around on the animals head shouting answers and suggestions into the animal’s ear. How cute.
# | 獣 | Beast, Animal | じゅう ; けもの | Grass + Rice Paddy + Creeper + Dog | On the grass near a rice paddy sits a creeper that is some sort of a dog beast, a vicious animal. This creeper isn’t just a normal dog, it is more beast-like, more like a feral animal than domesticated pet. Picture this beast creeping, low to the ground, in the grass around the rice paddy. It's got its eyes on you. Uh oh. The beast is guarding its precious jewels (じゅう), which it buried in the grass or the rice paddy somewhere. If you don't want the beast to think you're coming to steal those jewels, you better keep your distance. All beasts have something they're trying to protect. In this case, it's some beastly jewels.
# | 菓 | Cake | か | Flowers + Fruit | You take some flowers and some fruit and you make a cake out of it. It’s a very nice looking, flavorful cake. The fruit makes it taste great and the flowers make for great cake decorations. Look at this cake you have made. It’s majestic. Now taste some of it. It is one great tasting cake. Imagine yourself eating the best cake in all of ever. You’re standing back, admiring your cake when you hear a car (か) engine revving and before you know it your cake has been run over. The car came out of nowhere and ran your cake right over, spraying fruit cake bits and flowers all over the place. Stupid car! Hear the roar of the car engine as you get splattered in the face with the cake. Wipe it off of your face just in time to see the car speeding off into the distance. Also, recall that this kanji shares a reading with the similar kanji, 果.
# | 討 | Chastise | とう | Say + Measurement | They say using a measurement device (like a ruler) is a good way to chastise someone. They do something bad? Chastise them by slapping their wrists, their feet, their eyes, ears, anything! They say something out of turn? CHASTISE THEM! Imagine being chastised with a measurement device. Think how horrible it would be getting hit on your knuckles, your nose, or the back of your head. It would be awful. Imagine this experience. You're being chastised because you tried to say something in English in とうきょう. Everyone around you slowly turned around, eyes aflame and rulers in hand, ready to chastise you for uttering those forbidden words. How could you say something in English while you're in とうきょう?! After you went to all the trouble to learn all this kanji and Japanese? Geez, we almost think you deserve to be chastised...
# | 故 | Circumstance, Reason | こ ; ゆえ | Old + Winter | The old winter is to blame for today's circumstance. It is the reason things are bad now. Imagine a poor, broken town. And, imagine the mayor of a town telling their people that things are bad because of that bad old winter. "It's to blame for our circumstance!" he yells. In reality, this circumstance was actually caused by a single 子 (こ), though. This kid went through town, destroying everything in their path. Imagine your kid character walking through town, using their super powers to destroy buildings and rot food.
# | 較 | Contrast, Compare | かく, こう | Car + Mix | Your new car doesn’t mix well with the other cars in your garage because its color is in stark contrast to the others. All of your other cars are pristine white in color, but this new car is a mix of lots of colors. It almost looks like a peacock or something it’s so colorful. Such a contrast. Imagine this garage of yours with a sea of white cars. Now there is a new car that really sticks out like a sore thumb. Imagine yourself looking out over your cars and seeing this wacky car practically jumping out at you. What did I say this car looks like? Oh that’s right, a peacock (かく). This car looks like a peacock. It’s the color of a peacock and you’ll look like you’re peacocking when you’re out on the town driving it. It really is such a stark contrast to like, every other car out there. See yourself driving around in this peacock car. Hear the engine purr as strangers jeer and yell at you. This car sure does get a lot of attention, doesn’t it?
# | 創 | Create | そう | Warehouse + Knife | In your warehouse you use your knife to create. You keep old pieces of wood in your warehouse, and you use your knife to carve them into new things that only you could create. What do you create in your warehouse? Picture all the different things you could create in your mind. When you create it's good for your soul (そう). It's so freeing, in fact, that when you get really into your creating, sometimes you'd swear your soul was floating a little bit outside of your body. But every time you notice, it sinks back down. Hmm. When you create something your soul is happy! It's good for you, you know?
# | 造 | Create | ぞう ; つく | Scooter + Announce | "A scooter!" you announce. You are announcing this because you decided this is what you would create. Imagine being at a maker's contest. Each person has to announce loudly what they'll create, then they have to create it. But, a scooter has been created before. What is different about yours? The scooter you will create is specifically designed to keep zombies (ぞう) busy. Imagine the scooter you created with a zombie on it. It's a perfect place for the zombie to get stuck and scooted off into nowhere.
# | 励 | Encourage | れい ; はげ | Cliff + Ten Thousand + Power | The "Cliff of Ten Thousand Power" is where you go if you want to be encouraged. If you can get to the top of the cliff, it will use its "ten thousand power" to encourage you. When you get there, it does encourage you. The cliff says "Hey, I encourage you to buy a ray (れい) gun." A cliff is encouraging you to buy a ray gun for some reason. This is not the encouragement you expected, but it is encouragement nonetheless. You go back down the cliff and immediately buy a ray gun.
# | 激 | Fierce, Violent | げき ; はげ | Tsunami + White + Direction + Winter | A tsunami that is white, traveling in the direction of winter is a fierce and violent force of nature. This white tsunami is chasing after winter, and that’s why the tsunami is white—it’s a winter tsunami. It’s the most fierce and most violent kind of tsunami in existence. Imagine this white tsunami, more violent and fierce than any other tsunami you’ve ever seen, coming toward you. It’s very frightening. Feel the cold wetness it brings to your skin. The tsunami is too fierce, too violent, and before you realize what's happening, Gecki (げき), your beloved gecko, is lifted up and carried off into the air. "Geecckkkiiiiii!!!" you scream in horror, as he's thrown about by the fierce, winter tsunami. You have to close your eyes. You can't watch Gecki go.
# | 占 | Fortune, Occupy | せん ; うらな, し | Fortune | The fortune radical and the fortune kanji are exactly the same! But it also means occupy as well, so don’t forget that. Fortune and occupy both occupy the same radical. Just remember that this kanji also means occupy and you’ll be just fine. To occupy some free time you have, you go and get your fortune told at a fortune teller. Your fortune is that you’ll have an encounter with a centaur (せん) in the near future. Just then you realize that the fortune teller is actually a centaur! The fortune has come true! Imagine getting your fortune told by a centaur fortune teller. Do you trust this mythical beast to know your future? Watch him manipulate his crystal ball as his hooves stomp the ground beneath him.
# | 障 | Hinder | しょう ; さわ | Building + Chapter | There's a building standing in the way of the next chapter in your life, and it's hindering you. It's not like you couldn't find another way around, but it's definitely inconvenient. Picture this huge, tall building standing directly in the way. You peer around the other side and there is a book floating in the air that says "Chapter 5: Success and Happiness." Dang, you really want to get over there to that part of your life. Someone put this building here specifically to hinder you. They knew you were close to the next chapter of your life, and they wanted to hinder you really good. And there they are, sitting on a throne smirking. It's the Shougun (しょう). The Shougun wants to hinder you and your life. He wants you to have to work harder so you become better, faster, and stronger than anyone else. Hindering you is his way of making sure you don't take the easy way out in life.
# | 我 | I, Me | が ; われ, わ | Ego | Your ego... it's totally out of control. I mean, my ego isn't out of control. I'm the greatest. That's me. But your ego? Ugh, so out of control unlike my amazing ego. Just keep going with this sentence about the ego. You can't stop, because really it's your ego that's out of control. That's I when you're saying it. I am the greatest in the world! I am no baby like you, that's why. A baby who says "ga (が) ga ga ga!" You're just destroying the ego of that other guy. "Why?" you ask? "Because I am the boss here. And you are the baby. Ego things."
# | 徴 | Indication, Sign | ちょう | Loiter + Mountain + King + Winter | A loitering mountain king in the winter is an indication or sign of something to come. We don't want to focus too much on what the indication / sign actually is, though, because it will take away from the indication part (which we want to remember). So, focus on the fact that this is some kind of indication that's important, but you don't know what that indication means or is... because we'll use that with the reading. When you spot a loitering mountain king in the winter, you know it's an indication that soon Mrs. Chou (ちょう) will appear. It's like a Groundhog's Day kind of situation, but instead it means Mrs. Chou is about to come out, perhaps early for the season. Imagine an announcer watching the loitering mountain king, "There he is... and it's still winter. We all know what that means. It's a sign that Mrs. Chou will be coming out of hibernation soon." Then, you can imagine her bursting forth from the mountain, running down her street.
# | 授 | Instruct | じゅ ; さず | Fingers + Accept | There are fingers reaching towards you asking you to accept to instruct them. They're the fingers of students. And you're the teacher. See them reach out for knowledge. They want to accept this knowledge into their hearts and brains. Instruct them! Picture yourself instructing a class full of knowledge hungry little kids. They reach out with their fingers to accept the truth you bring to them. "Yes! I will instruct you, my dear students!" you cry, "I will instruct you on how to open a small juice (じゅ) box!" That's right. These little kids need help learning how to open small juice boxes (small because kids are small). Picture yourself instructing little kids how to punch the straw into small juice boxes. Hold it right-side-up! Don't squeeze too hard! Don't punch it through the other side! No! Don't bite the box! Instructing is hard!
# | 往 | Journey, Depart | おう | Loiter + Master | You loiter around your master until he departs on a journey. You have a lot more freedom to do things after your master has departed, so until that time you just loiter about looking busy and staying out of his way. Picture yourself loitering around your master’s fancy mansion. You’re pretending to dust things off, but you’re actually just waiting for him to depart on his journey. Finally, it's time for your master's journey and he calls to you and says, "You are the 王 (おう) of the house now. Take care of everything while I'm gone." Your master has departed! You are the 王 now!
# | 鉛 | Lead | えん ; なまり | Gold + Fins + Mouth | You hold gold fins in your mouth while shopping for pencil lead at the store. This pencil lead store only accepts gold fins as payment, but your fins don’t fit in your pockets and you need your hands to carry the lead so the gold fins go in your mouth. Imagine having these gold fins in your mouth. Taste the metal as your tongue runs over them. You pay for your lead but the cashier puts it in your mouth where the gold fins were and... everything ends (えん). Lead poisoning, huh? What a way for everything to end...
# | 郵 | Mail, Post | ゆう | Car + Building | A broken car sits in a building. You need to get rid of it, so you put it in the mail. Or, depending on where you live, maybe you put it in the post. You just put some postage on it and watch the mail carrier take it away like any other piece of mail. Who did you address this broken car mail (or post) to? You sent it to the youths (ゆう) of the world. You figure youths don't have cars anymore, so they could use one. Ugh, youths these days and their ride share apps.
# | 針 | Needle | しん ; はり | Gold + Cross | In a gold cross, you see a needle sticking out of it. The needle is right in the middle of the gold cross. If Jesus were on there, the needle would be sticking him right in the chest. Picture this golden cross in your head. Why do you suppose there’s this needle stuck in it? You try to pull it out but you can’t. Envision yourself straining, trying to get the thing out. You're about to give up on the needle when it pops out and flies directly into your shin (しん). Ouch! Now you're desperately trying to pull the needle out of your shin, but it really won't budge this time. Maybe you should have minded your own business. Imagine a needle sticking into your shin. It hurts a ton. How would you try to get it out?
# | 従 | Obey, Accompany, Follow | じゅう ; したが | Loiter + Horns + Correct | If you see someone loitering around with horns on their head you'd be correct to obey and accompany them. First of all, this could be really fun. Second of all, if this person is a demon or something, you should really just obey them or they could curse you. What's the worst that could happen?! If you obey the horned man you'll end up with a ton of jewels (じゅう)! You stole those jewels together and now you're an accomplice for accompanying him! You better hide those jewels!!
# | 復 | Restore | ふく | Loiter + Black Hole | You loiter around a black hole, waiting for it to finish destroying and switch to restore mode. You were told all black holes finish eventually, and when they do you can press a button to restore everything back to the way it was. Imagine loitering around near (but not too near!) the black hole waiting for it to finish so you can restore the galaxy. Finally there's nothing else for the black hole to eat so you hit the restore button.... but nothing happens. "Oh f**k (ふく) you!" you scream as you realize you were lied to. Maybe if you yell f**k you enough things will be restored. Ha. No. Everything's gone and it's your fault for being gullible.
# | 河 | River | か ; かわ; こう, こお | Tsunami + Lip Ring | During a tsunami, your lip ring is ripped off while you’re trying to cross a river. There was no other path to safety, you had to cross the raging river, but you lost your footing and smashed your face on a rock and lost your lip ring. Imagine how painful this would be, having your lip ring ripped from your lip. It would hurt a lot. Touch your lip and imagine missing half of it. Yikes. But why were you trying to cross this river anyway? Well your car (か) was on the other side of it, and you figured if you could get to your car you could outrun the tsunami and be safe. Too bad you fell and ripped out your lip ring though. Imagine yourself fording the river, all wet and cold from the water. Keeping your eyes on your car, you move slowly across. Look at the car. Look at it!
# | 貯 | Savings | ちょ ; たくわ | Shellfish + Roof + Street | You keep all of your shellfish under a roof down the street and it's your savings. Shellfish used to be used as money way back, and these aren't shellfish you're spending, they're ones you're saving up for later. Imagine walking down the street to deposit more shellfish into your special savings and gaze happily at the huge pile you keep far enough away that you aren't tempted to spend it. When you want to withdraw from your savings you force yourself to use chopsticks (ちょ) to pick up the shellfish. They're especially slippery, hard to use chopsticks too, that way it's really hard to take too much out of your savings. Imagine trying to lift up a shellfish with a pair of smooth chopsticks. It slips right out. Ugh! I guess that's good though, because it's a savings for a reason (you shouldn't be spending it)!
# | 印 | Seal, Mark | いん ; しるし | Comb + Stamp | You take this comb, break the handle off, and use it to stamp your official seal of approval onto a document. It's kind of a messy marking process, but it gets the job done. Imagine breaking and bending a comb so you can use it to stamp your seal onto things. You need this seal to stay at an inn (いん). All inns require official paperwork, so you had to improvise and make a seal on the fly. Hopefully the inn accepts this seal... or you aren't going to have a place to sleep tonight. And it kind of just looks like you dipped a comb in ink and pressed it around on some paper.
# | 振 | Shake, Wave | しん ; ふ | Fingers + Landslide | You're trying to use your fingers to cause a landslide so you have to shake the earth. You probably won't succeed, but the best you can do is to shake your hands on the dirt as hard as you can. It looks like you're trying to wave at the ground now. Imagine shaking your fingers at the dirt. Do you think you can shake the dirt hard enough to cause a landslide (spoilers, no). You think you finally got the earth to shake but when you look down it's just your shins (しん). Darn you shins, I thought I made some progress. Hey wait... why won't you stop?! Imagine your shins shaking, your hands are waving, and they won't stop. No! You shouldn't have tried to start a landslide. This was a bad idea!
# | 怪 | Suspicious | かい, け ; あや | Soul + Tombstone | You see a soul floating around a tombstone acting suspicious. To be fair, if a soul is going to be anywhere, a tombstone is probably high up on the list, but this one seems like it's doing something weird. Imagine inching closer to this suspicious soul floating around a tombstone. What do you think it's doing? You sneak around the tombstone to see what this suspicious soul is doing, and you realize it's pretending to kayak (かい). The soul is sitting behind the tombstone, in a small kayak, moving its arms like it's rowing through water. Even more suspicious, the soul seems to be holding a kettle (け). Considering the soul is already dead, this doesn't seem like something it will need. Picture a suspicious, kettle holding, kayaking soul. The afterlife may be more interesting than you thought.
# | 汗 | Sweat | あせ ; かん | Tsunami + Dry | The tsunami going down your dry face is just sweat. Sweat really does feel like a tsunami though. Wow, it's dry and hot out right now! The sweat isn't just on your face, it's also dripping down your ass (あせ). The one place you wish sweat wouldn't go, but somehow it always does: the ass.
# | 筆 | Writing Brush | ひつ ; ふで | Bamboo + Brush | Out of bamboo, you make a brush – a writing brush. This is no ordinary brush, mind you. It is a brush specifically designed for writing elegant characters. And it’s made from bamboo! Imagine yourself using this bamboo writing brush. Do you know many kanji? Of course you do! Imagine yourself writing them all with this nice writing brush. It’s actually fun to write things with it! Once the writing brush hits (ひつ) that paper, it’s like you transform into a totally different person. All of a sudden you’re a master calligrapher, writing anything and everything in a most beautiful fashion. Once that brush hits the paper, it’s on! Imagine the sound the brush makes when it hits the paper. It’s a bit of a plop, and then kind of a scratching sound as the brush bristles move around. Really focus on this sound that the brush makes when it hits the paper.
# | 怒 | Angry, Anger | ど ; おこ, いか | Woman + Stool + Heart | A woman sitting on a stool with a broken heart is very angry. She had her heart broken by some jerk and now she’s sitting on the stool, just stewing over the guy and how angry she is with him. This woman is so angry! Pretend you are the woman. Sit on your stool and feel your heart, painful in your chest, as you fume and think about how angry you are. As you're sitting on that stool feeling angry, your dog (ど) comes up to console you. He nuzzles his head into your lap, and you start to feel the anger melt away. Imagine your dog (or somebody else's dog) putting his furry, warm head in your lap. Feel how comforting it is. Are you still feeling angry?
# | 昇 | Ascend | しょう ; のぼ | Sun + Slide + Twenty | You want to go to the sun so you set up a slide twenty stories tall so you can ascend into the heavens. Feel the air whoosh past your face as you shoot off the end of the long slide and ascend into the air. It's starting to get hot and the sun is getting closer! You need to ascend into the sky and toward the sun because the Shougun (しょう) said so. He's testing out some space travel technology (the twenty story slide) and you're his guinea pig. As you ascend, look back through tear-filled eyes and see the Shougun staring up at you. He nods slightly. You've pleased him.
# | 迷 | Astray, Lost | めい ; まよ | Scooter + Rice | If you're riding your scooter through some rice, it's likely you've gone astray. Also you might be lost. Usually there aren't paved areas inside areas of rice. You must be really lost if you ended up here with your scooter. You got so lost and went so astray you ended up on the Mayflower  (めい), a ship that eventually took you across the Atlantic Ocean. Now you've really, really gone astray. How you got so lost that you ended up on an old ship from 1620 is beyond my understanding. But you did it.
# | 招 | Beckon | しょう ; まね | Fingers + Call | Someone is reaching out with their fingers to call for you. They beckon you closer, this way. Something about the way they're beckoning you with their fingers is really enticing. You can't help but walk toward them. The person beckoning you is the Shougun (しょう). You can't help but obey the Shougun's beckoning call. Even if the Shougun didn't have an army that would crush you if you didn't come when he called, you'd go anyway. Those beckoning fingers are just so... weirdly enticing.
# | 腹 | Belly, Abdomen, Stomach | ふく ; はら, なか | Moon + Black Hole | Inside this moon is a black hole... haha just kidding, it's your belly! It's beautiful and round like the moon and it eats up everything you give it like a black hole. What a good stomach you have! Look down at your perfect belly. It's looking back up at you. If you don't treat your belly with respect, when you look down at it, it'll yell, "F**k (ふく) you!" Be nice to your stomach! Forget to eat lunch? Belly grumbles f**k you. Tell someone you're fat and need to lose weight? Belly cries f**k you. Be nice to your belly.
# | 濃 | Dense, Thick | のう ; こ | Tsunami + Farming | After a tsunami hit your farming land, you're gonna see a lot of dense silt left behind. This thick layer really enriches the soil, and your crops will come out tasting extra thick and dense in flavor. Imagine your farming land absolutely covered with this dense layer of silt from the tsunami, but then seeing your crops sprouting up one after another, thicker than ever. It’s all very thick and dense, we think you get the point. Know who’s likely responsible for this dense, thick layer of silt? Nostradamus (のう). He’s the one who urged you to buy this farmland in the first place, likely because he predicted the tsunami would bring this thick layer of silt. You can always rely on Nostradamus’ predictions hitting the mark, even when it comes to thickly-layered-silt-bringing tsunamis. Good ol’ reliable Nostradamus.
# | 睡 | Drowsy | すい | Eye + Car | Your eyes start to close as you drive your car because you’re getting drowsy. This is a very dangerous way to drive your car, especially since your car is missing its top and its bottom. This is no time to be getting drowsy. Keep your eyes open and drive for your life! Feel yourself getting drowsy as you drive this goofy car. You’re so tired. Struggle to keep your eyes open. Also visualize this car missing its top and its bottom because the car radical is modified. The reason you’re so drowsy, and also the reason your car is missing part of its bottom, is because you took one of the car’s tires and made a tire swing (すい) out of it. You’d been swinging on the tire swing all day and now you’re super drowsy and worn out. Imagine yourself swinging on this tire swing. You’ve been swinging for a while and you’re getting really drowsy.
# | 康 | Ease, Peace | こう | Canopy + Wolverine + Water | You see a canopy under which Wolverine is sipping some water. He looks so at ease and at peace. Wolverine just looks so peaceful under that canopy with his water. Suddenly you realize that it's not just Wolverine, but also こういち. hanging out under the canopy. こういち sees you and invites you to come sip water under the canopy. Why not? Looks peaceful.
# | 端 | Edge | たん ; はし, はた, は, はした, はな | Stand + Mountain + Rake | Setting up a stand on the top of a mountain, you rake all the rocks to the edge of it. You want to clear the area around your stand, so you get your rake out and you rake all the stones and debris away from the stand and toward the edge of the mountain top. It also creates a small barrier around the edge as well. Imagine yourself at the top of the mountain, holding the rake in your hands. Look over the edge. Feel the sinking feeling in your stomach as you realize how high up you really are. You set up this stand at the top of the mountain so you could give a speech to the world. But you need to look your best, so you decide to get a tan (たん). You lie next to the edge of the mountain, and prepare to tan. Everyone likes a person with a healthy tan. Imagine yourself at the edge of this mountain getting your tan on. Feel the sun beating down on you and feel the fresh mountain breeze blowing over your body. It’s very relaxing.
# | 極 | Extreme | きょく, ごく ; きわ | Tree + Ground + Prison + Mouth + Stool | There aren't many trees in your underground prison, so you've been given a task: using only your mouth and a stool, plant as many in the ground as you can. It's an extreme challenge! How are you going to approach this weirdly specific, extreme task? Dig a hole using the stool and then plant the trees with your mouth? Good luck figuring this one out! You're in a weird underground prison for a reason, after all. This extreme challenge could only be solved by one person: Goku (ごく) from Dragon Ball Z! He has a special cloak that'll allow you to plant trees in record time, so he quickly cloaks you (きょく) to help with your extreme task. Goku barely manages to cloak you before the prison guards realize what's going on. With this cloak, you'll be planting trees with your mouth and stool like no one else before! Hooray!
# | 就 | Get A Position | しゅう ; つ | Capital + Dog | In the capital, even a broken dog can get a position. That's because the capital has so many jobs available that even a poor, broken dog can find a place to work. Imagine this dog going to the capital and getting a position. The poor dog looks pretty messed up though. The radical for dog in this kanji is a bit modified, so just remember that the dog in this story is all messed up. In order to help the dog get a position, the capital cobbler made him a pair of nice shoes (しゅう). The shoes help him walk on his hurt legs, but more importantly, they boost his confidence and make him feel ready for any position. Watch the broken dog settle in to his new shoes in his new home in the capital. The old dog can finally enjoy life!
# | 郎 | Guy | ろう | Good + Building | Inside the "Good Building" there's a single guy. Feel free to walk around the Good Building. There are no things or people, except for that one guy. Who is that guy. You talk to that guy. The only thing he does is offer you roe (ろう). You try to talk to the guy, poke him, and even yell at him. But, all he does is hand you some fish roe. When you take it, he offers you more fish roe. What's up with this guy?
# | 健 | Healthy | けん | Leader + Yoga + Brush | The leader of your yoga class uses a special brush to stay healthy. She rubs the brush on her long arms and legs, and she never ever gets sick. If you want to be healthy too, just do yoga and rub this healthy brush all over your bod. Not everyone wants to be healthy, but Ken (けん) the samurai sure does. He needs to be ready at a moment's notice so he can do tasks for other people. He's at every class, rubbing himself down with the brush. Imagine Ken, the picture of samurai health, doing yoga and getting that brush all up in those bits.
# | 誘 | Invite | ゆう ; さそ | Say + Grain + Stairs | You say to some grain and some stairs: I want to invite you to my place. So you do. You invite a stalk of grain and a set of stairs to your home. You invited them to your home because your roommate was having a party and inviting a lot of youths (ゆう) over. You wanted to look cool, so you invited some grain and some stairs, the two coolest things you could think of. Surprisingly, the youths were impressed and spent a long time trying to talk to them.
# | 貸 | Lend | か ; たい | Substitute + Shellfish | You substitute some shellfish for collateral so your friend will lend you some money. Normally he would ask for something more valuable, but you’ve convinced him to substitute these shellfish for what he would normally take as collateral when lending to people. "Shellfish used to be money! People used to lend them to each other all the time!" you say to your friend. "Hmm... okay, I guess so," they say skeptically. You want your friend to lend you some money so you can buy yourself a car (か). You need money and a car a lot more than you need this pile of shellfish, so you’re happy to put them up as collateral for the loan. Imagine yourself in this new car that you got with the money your friend lent you. Hear the roar of the engine and feel the wind in your hair.
# | 憧 | Long For, Yearn | あこが ; しょう, とう, どう | Soul + Stand + Village | Your soul stands in the village you long for. It's the village you're from, and no matter how far you go, no matter how old you get, your soul is still there, and you yearn for it. Have you ever been away from your village? Maybe you're far away right now, studying Japanese alone. Can't you feel your body longing for your soul back home? No matter how much you long for it, you can't go back because a cougar (あこが) is in the way. Whenever you try to return to your village to be reunited with the soul you yearn for, a cougar is back, and won't let you in. You long for a cougar to leave you alone! You yearn for a cougar to bother someone else!
# | 惑 | Misguided | わく ; まど | Drunkard + Mouth + Ground + Heart | A drunkard who has his mouth on the ground, has a heart that is misguided. First of all, he tries to drink his problems away, but worse, he's so drunk he's trying to drink out of the ground. Picture this misguided drunkard. His whole deal is messed up. Nowadays we don't say misguided, we say wack (わく). Like, damn that drunkard is so messed up, he's wack. Did I do it? Did I figure out the kid lingo? Am I cool? Or am I just another wack, misguided adult?
# | 痛 | Pain | つう ; いた | Sick + Mama + Task | When your sick mama tries to do a task she's filled with pain! Sick people shouldn't have to do things, of course they're in pain. You shouldn't let your mama do anything if she's in pain, do it for her! Your mama's pain is too (つう) much for her to handle, so now you have to do all of her tasks too. You finish doing your tasks and hers too, and you ask her, "How is the pain now, Mama?" "THE PAIN IS TOO MUCH!" she cries. Oh mama.
# | 退 | Retreat, Reject | たい ; しりぞ, ひ, ど, の | Scooter + Root | If you're on your scooter and you run over a root, you'll need to retreat. The roots have obviously rejected you, they want you to leave, so you should. Picture the roots raising up a little bit from the ground and tripping up your scooter. They reject you, so you should just retreat. You're trying to retreat by scooting backwards, but the roots grab onto your tie (たい). You try to pull your tie off but it's just getting tighter and tighter around your neck. You didn't retreat fast enough, the roots are rejecting your life, and strangling you with your own tie.
# | 途 | Route | と | Scooter + Surplus | When you ride a scooter you'll have a surplus of possible routes. Not only can you drive on any road, but you can ride on the sidewalk too! Okay, so it might not be legal to take the sidewalk route depending on where you live, but physically, you can do whatever you want because scooters are small. You decide to take the fastest route, since you have so many options, and drive on the sidewalk. However, in doing so you run over every single toe (と) on every single person trying to walk there. Psh, whatever. They aren't your toes, and this is the fastest route! You'll name it the toe route and do whatever you want.
# | 靴 | Shoes | くつ ; か | Leather + Change | Take your leather and change it into shoes. You start with a sheet of leather. Now imagine yourself going through the process of changing them to shoes. Smell the leather and feel it, too. Some shoes aren’t made from leather anymore these days, but you know who always wears shoes made of leather? Old coots (くつ). Old coots are so old that the only shoes they wore growing up were made from leather so they refuse to wear any shoes that aren’t made from leather. Crazy old coots. Imagine some of these old coots busting into a modern shoe store and kicking over all the display stands and setting everything on fire because they hate non leather shoes so much. Hear the old coots screaming and babbling nonsense as they destroy the store.
# | 眠 | Sleep | みん ; ねむ | Eye + Peoples | Closing each eye is something that the peoples do before they sleep. The peoples can’t sleep with both eyes open and they can’t sleep with just one eye open either. Peoples have to close each eye before they can sleep. You are one of these peoples, so imagine yourself closing your eyes and sleeping. Go ahead and do it right now. Close one eye, and then the other. Now imagine yourself sleeping. The reason you want to sleep is because all the other peoples were mean (みん) to you. They were so mean that the only way you could get over it was to close your eyes and sleep. You just want to sleep. Those other peoples were really mean to you. Imagine all the mean things they were saying to you. What did they say? Think about all these mean things as you close your eyes and drift off to sleep. Also keep in mind that this kanji has the same reading as 民, which is included in this kanji.
# | 暇 | Spare Time, Free Time | か ; ひま, いとま | Sun + Comb + Cage + Stool | In the sun while holding a comb in a cage and sitting on a stool, you comb your hair in your spare time. Since you’re in a cage, you actually fashioned this comb yourself, so it’s a little messed up, missing a prong. You’re working on improving it in your spare time, and you also use it to style your mop. Imagine yourself in your spare time, sitting on this stool in a cage in the sun. Feel the warmth of the sun on your body and feel the metal bars of the cage holding you in. You try to forget about your situation by combing your hair with the comb. The comb radical is a little modified, so be sure to remember that you made this comb yourself and it’s a little wonky. So how did you get in this cage? Well, before you used to comb your hair in your spare time, you used to steal cars (か). You’d stolen many a car in your day, but you finally got caught in the act of stealing a car, and now you’re spending all of your spare time in that cage, just combing your hair. Picture yourself in this cage. You’re going to be there for life because you’d stolen too many cars. Feel the tears run down your face as you continue to comb your hair. You’re going to die in this cage.
# | 段 | Steps, Stairs | だん | Comb + Weapon | Cut this comb up with your weapon and turn it into the steps for some stairs. When you think about it, a comb is like a ladder. So if you cut all the rungs off with your weapon and put them on the ground, they turn into stairs! You slowly work to create these stairs, you have to slice up a lot of combs, and at dawn (だん) they are done! Imagine standing at the top of the stairs you made yourself, looking down at the entire town below you, as the light of dawn breaks and fills everything before you with light. And now more people can see this beautiful sight if they climb your steps.
# | 胃 | Stomach | い | Rice Paddy + Moon | If you eat a rice paddy the size of the moon, your stomach is going to hurt. All the rice in a rice paddy the size of the moon is way too much rice for anyone to consume. If you do, your stomach is going to ache like crazy. Imagine having a whole rice paddy in your stomach. A rice paddy the size of the moon. Your stomach hurts a lot. You feel like you’re going to throw up. From the sky, an eagle swoops down and flies right into your distended stomach. Bam! The eagle (い) hits your stomach and you vomit up the entire moon sized rice paddy. This eagle saw your stomach distress and decided to help by making you barf. Hear the screech of the eagle as it swoops down and rams you in the stomach.
# | 症 | Symptom | しょう | Sick + Correct | When someone is sick in order to diagnose the correct cause and treatment, you need to check their symptoms. You have to be especially careful too, because if you get a symptom wrong, you could kill them! If you know all of the symptoms for each and every sickness you'd be able to cure them all! You need to figure out the symptoms the Shougun (しょう) is having. This is really serious too, so you better be correct about which sickness he has. If something bad happens to the Shougun it will be off with your head. You get all up close and personal with the Shougun. Hmm, his symptoms are watery eyes, stuffy nose, angry shouting (wait no, that's not a symptom, is it?). Don't mess up!
# | 締 | Tighten | てい ; し | Thread + Stand + Towel | You have a special thread in your towel you can use to make it stand up by tightening it. Imagine pulling this thread and watch as your towel tightens and goes rigid, standing up almost completely on its own (except that the thread did it). You tighten your towel before you eat tater (てい) tots every night. That way it stands up nice and straight next to your eating chair, ready for all that delicious tater tot grease that gets on your fingers. A tightened towel stands up for easy grease cleanup. No wiping on your pants, no dripping on the floor.
# | 迫 | Urge, Compel, Coerce | はく ; せま | Scooter + White | The scooter is white. This color will urge and compel you to use it. Scooter companies use colors to get you to do what they want. Some would say they are trying to coerce you, even. Look at how white the scooter is. It urges you to use it. It compels you. You feel coerced... When they urge, compel and coerce you like this, they are hacking (はく) your brain. Really all marketing, advertising, and the like is just a hack of your brain. Hint: If you see 白 in a kanji, there's a good likelihood the reading will be はく.
# | 訪 | Visit | ほう ; たず, おとず | Say + Direction | Someone just asked you to say which direction they should visit. You better think long and hard about where you think they should visit before you say so. They're relying on you. You end up saying, "You should visit my home (ほう)." How kind of you! Your home is just over that direction, and it's your favorite place to visit, so why wouldn't this stranger want to visit your home too?! So come and visit my home, random person!
# | 織 | Weave | しき, しょく ; お | Thread + Sound + Drunkard | Taking a thread and moving to the sound of the music, a drunkard makes a weave through some fabric. He’s using the thread to weave his clothes back together after he damaged them in a fall down the stairs. You know, because he’s a drunkard. Imagine this drunkard bipping and bopping to the sound of the music as he weaves this thread through his clothes to repair them. This drunkard is really chic (しき), but he's just fallen on hard times and has been hitting the bottle pretty hard lately. The piece of clothing he's using the thread to weave back together is one of his fancy chic outfits. Imagine this drunkard, and his chic but shabby appearance. Let's hope he can repair that chic outfit and go back to being his usual chic self.
# | 悩 | Worry | なや ; のう | Soul + Grass + Treasure Chest | If your soul is lying in the grass in a treasure chest, you're going to worry about it. It's just sitting there, out in the open, waiting for anyone to come and open it. Picture your soul curled up inside this treasure chest that's just sitting out on the grass. Anyone could open it up and look inside, and this worries you quite a bit! Unfortunately, you also worry about opening it yourself. You stand in front of the chest and think, "Should I open it? Nah, yah (なや). Wait. Nah. Yah. Dang, you can't make up your mind. You worry about what you'll find if you look directly at your soul. But you also worry about what will happen if someone else looks. So you're stuck in a constant state of worrying: nah or yah?!
# | 屈 | Yield | くつ ; かが | Flag + Exit | You see a flag by the exit letting you know to yield. There’s cross traffic just outside the exit, and the flag lets you know that you need to yield to them. Look at this flag telling you to yield. Now look through the exit right by the flag. You can see a bunch of people out there walking. Imagine standing by the exit, yielding to the other people until you have an opening. Hear the hustle and bustle of the people as you wait. Even though the flag told you to yield, you’re starting to lose your patience. The people walking outside the exit are all a bunch of crazy old coots (くつ)! These crazy coots keep walking right in front of the door, getting in the way. The old coots aren’t even going anywhere, they just keep looping around to obstruct the way! Darn coots! Forget the yield flag, it’s time to exit. Imagine busting out of the exit, punching and pushing your way through the old coots. Hear them scream and shout “Augh! My hip!” as you plow through them.
# | 攻 | Aggression | こう ; せ | Construction + Winter | Construction in the winter leads to aggression. Just think about it. It's cold, it's unpleasant, and you don't want to be there. So, you start to develop an aggression towards other people working with you on this winter project. Imagine yourself walking through the winter construction site, taking out your aggression on anyone you see. You hate this winter construction! You're taking your aggression out on everyone. Then, the sexy construction worker from WaniKani Level 1, こういち, walks by without a shirt on. You take out all your aggression on him. "Aggression" is going to depend on you, so you should imagine a scene where you take your aggression out on こういち, whatever that entails. Hint: When you see the radical construction (工) in a kanji, it will often take the こう reading.
# | 撃 | Attack | げき ; う | Car + Weapon + Hand | If someone is coming toward you in a car, holding a weapon in their hand, they're going to attack you! Picture the car, weapon out the window, preparing to attack you full force! Right before the attack begins, you recognize the hand holding this weapon and driving this car. It's Gecki (げき), your long-lost gecko who you may or may not have let fly off into a really fierce tsunami. Oops. I think he may be here attacking you out of revenge. Gecki is attacking you now. He's hitting you over and over with his tiny car. He's yelling and smacking your ankles with his weapon. And all you can do is wait and let the attack happen, because you know you deserve it.
# | 浜 | Beach | はま ; ひん | Tsunami + Axe + Ground + Fins | After a tsunami, you find an axe on the ground next to some fins on the beach. The tsunami was pretty violent, and it looks like this axe got blown into some fish and cut off their fins and now those things are just on the ground by the beach. See these things on the beach. It makes sense to see fins, as fins are usually in the ocean, so seeing them on the beach is logical. Pick up the stuff you find as you feel the beach sand between your toes. Walking down the beach a bit more, you also find a hammer (はま). Gosh, looks like the tsunami hit a workshop or a hardware store or something. First the axe, now a hammer. Pick up the hammer in your hand. It’s pretty heavy. The tsunami must have been very strong to pick up such a heavy hammer.
# | 綺 | Beautiful | き | Thread + Odd | This thread is odd, but that's what makes it beautiful. It's a little frayed, it's a little miscolored, but that's what makes it appealing to you. If something is a bit odd, it's usually beautiful in its own way, just like this beautiful thread. You take this beautiful thread and lock it up with a key (き). You want to keep it all to yourself, you want its beauty to be for your eyes only! To remember that there's a beautiful thread hidden away, you tie a not-as-beautiful thread to the end of the key.
# | 益 | Benefit | えき | Horns + Ground + Fins + Plate | There are some horns on the ground next to fins on a plate that are meant to benefit everyone. If you're a member of this town, one of your benefits is this little set up. You pick up the horns off the ground and put them on your head, then eat some fins off the plate. This is just one of many benefits to living here. You'll never go hungry! Another benefit is free 駅 (えき) usage! Whenever you come back home from places on the train, this 駅 is completely free. Okay, so using the 駅 is probably a better benefit than eating cold fins off a plate on the ground, but you take what you can get. They're all free!
# | 沼 | Bog | ぬま ; しょう | Tsunami + Call | A tsunami can't resist the call of a bog. Whenever a tsunami is headed toward land, a bog will always call out to it, "Hey tsunami, don't you want to hit me with your water? Come this way~" Close your eyes and hear the bog's tempting call. As you listen to the bog's call you realize it looks just like the Numa (ぬま) Numa guy in your mind. You open your eyes and it's just a bog. You close your eyes, and there he is. The Numa Numa guy. So that's what happened to him! If you're a youngun, just do a little Google and you'll be pretty pleased, I'm sure.
# | 児 | Child | じ, に ; こ | Stick + Sun + Legs | Pointing your magic solar powered wishing stick at the sun, you attain the legs of a child. You’re old and want young legs to carry you around, so you took your wishing stick that’s powered by the sun, and you wished for the legs of a child. Imagine yourself getting new legs. Legs that belong to a child. They’re limber and young and full of energy! Feel your legs of a child underneath you! As you delight in your new legs, Jesus (じ) descends from the sky. “My child,” he says, “why have you pointed the stick at the sun and wished for the legs of a child? You were already perfect, just as all of God’s children are perfect.” Say back to Jesus, “I’m not your child Jesus! And you’re just jealous of my new legs! You wish you had the legs of a child, Jesus! Your legs are like super old!” Actually say this out loud, and remember how Jesus wishes he could be a child again too.
# | 揃 | Complete | そろ ; せん | Fingers + Before | Your fingers before were complete. Imagine one of your fingers is missing, and they're no longer complete like before. When everyone told you not to join that yakuza gang, you just didn't listen. To have your complete fingers back, you gotta run to the hospital solo (そろ). You can't be seen with anyone because your former yakuza mates might be watching you. Seriously, you don't want anyone else involved in this business.
# | 憲 | Constitution | けん | Roof + Life + Net + Heart | The roof protecting your life and the net protecting your heart are both protected by the constitution. The constitution makes it so that everything you hold dear is locked away, nice and safe on a piece of paper, and no one can change the rules or hurt you without your say so. Your country's constitution is being protected by none other than Ken (けん) the samurai, hero for hire. Picture Ken standing in front of your constitution. But keep a close watch, cause wily ol' Nic Cage is in the business of thievin' on constitutions.
# | 冷 | Cool, Cold | れい ; つめ, ひ, さ | Ice + Orders | You got your ice orders. Of course, your ice orders are to make things cool and cold. Making things cool and cold are pretty much the only orders you'll hear from ice. Ice is very simple in that regard. How will you make things cool and cold? You'll use a special ray (れい) gun that shoots a cold ray. Imagine a cold ray coming out of your ray gun. Anything it touches becomes cold. "Stay cool, bird boy," you say. Hint: When you see the radical orders (令) in a kanji, it's fairly likely the reading will be れい.
# | 処 | Deal With | しょ ; ところ | Winter + Table | A winter table would be an odd thing to deal with. Winter can be hard to deal with on its own, but turn your table into winter? Just dealing with your food getting cold would be the worst! Look at this winter table. How are you ever going to deal with it? Just think of your favorite warm food and then imagine it getting cold. Deal with it, dog. This winter table is something you have to deal with, sure, but what if you just gave it to a circus show (しょ)? They like weird stuff like this. Feel the relief of getting rid of this table. No more having to deal with it anymore. The circus show can have it.
# | 微 | Delicate | び ; かす | Loiter + Mountain + Pi + Winter | You loiter on the mountain, reading off the numbers of pi on this winter morning. Everything is so perfect, so mathematical here. You view it as delicate. Not in the sense that it will break apart at any moment, more in the sense that there are smaller, more subtle things to be enjoyed on this mountain, which is why you loiter here doing math. You'll have to imagine the things you consider to be "delicate." Is that the snow falling on the branches? Is it the breeze? Is it something else? That's for you to decide, but imagine it vividly whatever it is. Ah! Of course! The delicate bumble bee (び), that is your epitome of delicate. It lands upon your finger, and you look at its every fiber of being. Picture yourself looking at the bee, thinking how each hair on its body is so delicate. Maybe it has a delicate aroma to go with it. A faint smell of honey?
# | 博 | Exhibition, Gambling | はく, ばく | Cross + Drop + Specialty | You wear a great big cross with a drop on it, and head to a specialty exhibition for gambling. The big cross and drop on your chest is your badge for being admitted into the exhibition. Everyone at the specialty exhibition has a cross and drop, and everyone is gambling. Picture yourself at this specialty exhibition. Feel the weight of the cross shaped badge on your chest as you continue gambling at the exhibition. You’re not very good at gambling, but you are pretty good at cheating. You hack (はく) the specialty exhibition gambling machines to pay out lots of cash just for you. You hack quickly and quietly, so luckily no one notices that you’ve hacked the system. Hack the gambling machines. Imagine the sounds of the exhibition around you as you work to hack the machines. Look at the computer parts and cables as you work.
# | 程 | Extent | てい ; ほど | Grain + Mouth + King | The Grain Mouth King pours grain from his mouth for you and his other subjects. You go to him and pull his finger. When you do this, grain pours from his mouth. But we were greedy. We didn't understand the extent to which we were harvesting his mouth wheat. Of course, you need to imagine pulling the Grain Mouth King's finger, to some extent. You can't just read what we write for you, without going to the imagination zone. Pull that finger real hard a couple times, and watch an extra large purge of grain pour forth. The extent to which we were harvesting grain from his mouth was too great. The Grain Mouth King has run out of grain. He worries he will lose power if he has no grain to offer, so he switches to barfing out tater (てい) tots instead. Imagine hearing the rumors that the Grain Mouth King ran out of grain, so you go check the extent of his failure yourself. But tater tots taste pretty good too. Imagine eating one of his mouth tater tots and go ahead and comment about it to him.
# | 凍 | Frozen, Freeze | とう ; こお, こご | Ice + East | Ice from the east is frozen. Well, of course, all ice is frozen, but ice from the east is like, really super frozen. Imagine this super frozen ice from the east. You’ve never seen anything quite like it before. It’s so frozen, it’s like it was frozen once and then frozen again. Twice frozen. Feel the ice and how freezing cold it is. It’s super cold, guys. Japan is a country in the east, and this ice was frozen in とうきょう. とうきょう is really good at freezing frozen things, so it makes sense that this frozen ice came from there. Imagine being in とうきょう and seeing all this frozen ice. Hear people speaking Japanese all around you as you touch and feel the freezing twice-frozen ice.
# | 巨 | Giant | きょ | Giant | The giant radical and the giant kanji are exactly the same! Massive!  Just recently, a giant rampaged through Little Kyoto (きょ), so now it's even smaller than before. Poor Little Kyoto. See Little Kyoto after the giant rampaged through it. It looks even smaller and more pathetic than ever. Look at all the smoldering rubble and smell the smoke with your nose.
# | 稚 | Immature | ち | Grain + Turkey | Only give grains to a turkey if it's immature. Adult turkeys should be eating healthier things, like insects and grass. But immature turkeys don't care if they get fat, so they whine and whine and whine until you give them grains. Imagine an immature turkey complaining at you until you give it grains. Now it's taking selfies with the grains and posting pics to Instagram and hashtagging them #GRAINLIFE. Another thing immature turkeys (and people) love is cheese (ち). Most of us non-immature people and birds still like cheese, but if you didn't have an immature cheese phase as a kid or teen, you won't be able to like cheese as a mature old person. Imagine a bunch of immature kids and turkeys eating cheese together.
# | 幼 | Infancy, Childhood | よう ; おさな | Poop + Power | Super poop is a super power you have in infancy. Those in infancy have the power to poop at will, whenever and wherever they please. Infancy poop power! Infants poop a lot. There's poop everywhere. The powerful aroma overwhelms you. Eww. Also refers to childhood, when you still have some of your poop powers, but they're already starting to go away. In infancy, one eats a lot of soft foods, such as yogurt (よう). Yogurt is the food item above all others that grants superior pooping power. See this infant gobbling up all the yogurt he can get his grubby little hands on. Soon, he begins to poop all over the place. Hear the infant screaming, "Goo-goo! Yogurt poop power! I'm a baby! Wahhhh!!"
# | 並 | Line Up | へい ; なら, なみ | Horns + Ground + Spikes | You stick horns in the ground using them as spikes and you line up the horns in a straight line. Horns are pretty much the same thing as spikes once you stick them in the ground, and you line these ones up precisely for optimal protection. Imagine yourself lining up these horns in the ground. The spikes are sharp and you poke yourself with one. Ouch. Need to be more careful as you line these up. As you line up these horns and stick them into the ground, you notice a bull munching on hay (へい) nearby. It's staring at the horns you're lining up. Somehow it feels like it's munching that hay angrily. You gulp, looking at its horn as it grabs another mouthful of hay, and you feel pretty guilty. Imagine the hay in that bull's mouth as it chomps angrily, watching you line up horns in the ground. It probably wishes you were the hay.
# | 麗 | Lovely | れい ; うるわ | Lovely | If you know the radical meaning lovely, you know the kanji meaning lovely as well! You know what would make learning this kanji lovely? Studying your radicals. "Lovely" is the name of my ray (れい) gun. It's more lovely than any other thing. Try to imagine feeling this way about your ray gun. It's so lovely.
# | 修 | Mastering, Repair | しゅう ; おさ | Leader + Stick + Winter + Hair | Your leader is using a stick in the winter made of hair. This is the stick of mastering and repair. Imagine your leader holding this stick of hair in the winter, going around mastering all kinds of skills and repairing everything in sight. What a strange stick, giving even stranger abilities to its wielder. What's the key to mastering any skill? A stick and a shoe (しゅう)! Picture your leader again; stick in one hand, shoe in the other. He looks kind of threatening, like he's about to slap you with the stick and then throw the shoe at you. But that's what it takes for mastering certain skills. This is all for discipline’s sake.
# | 奇 | Odd, Strange | き | Odd | The odd radical and the odd kanji are the same. They're both... really strange. Remember how odd this one is? You're odd too, just like this kanji. But you don't want anyone to know, so you lock away your strange habits with a key (き). You only give this odd key to people you trust, so they can unlock your odd secrets and see how odd you are deep down.
# | 衆 | Populace | しゅう | Blood + Hair + Tofu | Blood and hair and tofu make up the populace. Those are the three categories the entire populace fits into, anyway. Blood shows that all the people are related. Hair shows that we're all humans. Tofu is food to all. So, as you can see, those three words describe the entire populace. The entire populace deserves shoes (しゅう). It's a basic thing all humans should have like flowing blood, hair (somewhere), and tofu to eat. If you see people in your populace without shoes, it's your job as a fellow member of society to help them get some!
# | 清 | Pure | せい, しょう, しん ; きよ; し | Tsunami + Blue | A tsunami that's blue is pure. Some tsunami are other colors, like brown or red because they aren't pure, they'll full of trash and poop and other horrible things. But a blue tsunami is completely pure! Picture this pure blue tsunami. You can see every crystal clear drop of water in it. Seeing this pure blue tsunami inspires you to pull out your glowing blue saber (せい)! As the pure water comes toward you, you take one, long slash! SPLAASHH! The tsunami's pure water splits and it absorbed into your saber. Now it's pure too. And transparent!
# | 潔 | Pure, Clean | けつ ; いさぎよ | Tsunami + Life + Sword + Thread | A tsunami takes life, cuts it like a sword through thread, and leaves everything behind completely pure and clean. Everything is dead and gone, wiped clean off the face of the earth, thanks to the tsunami. It's back to the way it was before humans were here, completely undefiled. Picture the tsunami purifying the land of life, and in your mind see the sword cutting clean through the thread of life. After the tsunami pulls away, everything left is pure white. You hate this, so you run over and squirt ketsup (けつ) all over the place to make it not so pure. The area is SO pure that the ground absorbs the ketsup and now it's all pure... ketsup color.
# | 録 | Record | ろく | Gold + Wolverine + Water | A gold Wolverine swam in the water while his father made a record of it. Wolverine is gold in color because he just won the gold medal in swimming, so now he is gold. Way to go, Wolverine. See this gold Wolverine holding his gold medal after getting out of the water. His dad doesn’t want to forget anything about this precious moment so he makes a record of it. Imagine him scribbling furiously in his notebook. Since Wolverine is actually a mutant, he is soon disqualified from his gold medal. His father makes a record of this also. One angry fan threw a rock (ろく) at Wolverine afterwards. Then another threw a rock. And another rock. Before you knew it, everyone was throwing rocks at Wolverine. Wolverine’s dad didn’t step in to help though, he just kept keeping records. Imagine a pitiful Wolverine crying on the ground as each rock hits him. All he wanted was some recognition from his father. Poor guy. Imagine poor Wolverine like this as his dad just looks on and writes in his notebook.
# | 逆 | Reverse, Opposite | ぎゃく ; さか | Scooter + Barracks + Drop | Your scooter takes you to the barracks, drops you off, and then goes in reverse all the way back home in the opposite direction. Imagine riding your scooter to the barracks. It literally drops you on the ground when you get there, and then drives in reverse back the opposite way you came. Your scooter going in reverse and leaving you here is opposite of what you want. You want to ride it back home when you're done, so you stuff the wheels with Gak (ぎゃく). If you don’t know what Gak is, check out this Gak commercial. You Gak up the wheels so when the scooter tries to switch to reverse it gets stuck. Success! But now it can't go forward either. Darn you Gak, you tricked me again.
# | 移 | Shift | い ; うつ | Grain + Evening | A grain, from one evening to the next evening, experiences a shift. After two evenings, the grain has shifted from one location to another. Picture the grain in your head with a time-lapse of one evening after another happening in the background. Slowly, the grain shifts. This shift is caused by the eagle (い) that wants to eat the grains. Every other evening, the eagle swoops down, shifts the grains (eating a few) and then flies off. Picture the eagle flying down on the second evening, scattering the grains it doesn't eat, shifting their location.
# | 精 | Spirit, Pure | せい | Rice + Blue | Rice that is blue has a strong spirit. Our spirits are blue, so if you ever see rice (or other food, or even people) that's blue, you know that's their spirit radiating out! Picture this rice, the pulsing blue spirit of each grain is glowing so bright! You want to see the spirit up close, so you take your saber (せい), throw the blue rice in the air, and slice it in half! The rice explodes and blue light fills everything! Then it's gone. As you release the spirits in the rice, your saber begins to glow blue too. Their spirits are going inside your saber, making it stronger!
# | 隊 | Squad | たい | Building + Horns + Pig | This building has a pig with horns on it because it's our squad's place. Our symbol is the horn pig and we put it on everything to show the whole world our squad owns this turf. #SQUADGOALS Our squad also wears special ties (たい) with our horned pig on it. And we don't care if you think that's lame, because we're A FAMILY. Picture our squad. It's Koichi, Viet, the Crabigator and Tofugu. We're all wearing matching horned pig ties and walking toward you in slow motion, our squad building towering behind us with the pig smirking down at you.
# | 庫 | Storage, Warehouse | こ ; くら | Canopy + Car | A canopy is over your car because your car is in storage in a large warehouse. The canopy just protects your car from the elements as it sits in storage for long periods of time. Your car is in this storage warehouse, just sitting there. A 子 (こ) notices this, and decides to take your car on a joyride. You won't notice, right? You never drive it. Imagine a kid sneaking into your canopy to steal your car that's in storage. Maybe it's two 子s, one stacked on the other with a trench coat. One 子 works the pedals while the other 子 works the steering.
# | 妙 | Strange | みょう ; たえ | Woman + Few | A woman is one of the few strange things in the world. Everything but a woman can be explained and made sense of. There are only a few strange things in this world, with woman being one of them. Imagine saying this to a woman. Try and imagine her face as you tell her how strange she is. But when you think about it, we're all a little strange. Me, you, myou (みょう) everybody! Who's strange? Me and you. Me, you - we are strange! Strange, strange, strange!
# | 券 | Ticket | けん | Gladiator + Sword | The gladiator in front of you draws his sword. He points the sword at your chest and right when you think everything is about to end, you realize he's pointing the sword at the ticket in your hand. Right! You needed to buy a ticket to see the gladiator! He doesn't want to kill you, he wants to check to make sure you bought a ticket. The gladiator happily marks your ticket with his blade, when Ken (けん) the samurai pushes past you. He holds up his own sword, challenging the gladiator, who just shakes his head and points at your ticket again. Ken takes a long time to examine your ticket. I don't think he understands that he needs a ticket to fight the gladiator. Maybe you should give him yours.
# | 傘 | Umbrella | かさ ; さん | Hat + Person + Cross | As a hat, four people holding a cross use an umbrella. The umbrella is big enough to be a hat for all four people, so it makes sense. All four of them are religious missionaries, so that’s why they’re holding the cross. See these four people all under one umbrella. No one is carrying the umbrella, it’s just resting on all of their heads like a hat. Their hands are busy holding that cross, anyway. You know the Spanish phrase “Mi casa (かさ) es su casa”? Well this is kind of like that, but only with a hat. And that hat is an umbrella. Mi casa es yours too, because it’s an umbrella and also a hat. This makes sense, trust me. Imagine the four people in the umbrella hat again, only this time imagine them skipping along singing “Mi casa es su casa”. It’ll help you remember.
# | 婦 | Wife | ふ | Woman + Wolverine + Forehead + Towel | That woman dressed as Wolverine with a towel tied around her forehead is your wife. You're cosplaying together! Picture your kick-butt wife in her Wolverine costume, the towel around her forehead so she doesn't sweat into her eyes, as you prepare to go to a convention together. Your wife suddenly looks at you and calls you a fool (ふ). Wuh! Then you look down and see that you're also dressed as Wolverine. Your wife is shaking her head saying, "You fool, it's my turn to be Wolverine, you're gonna have to change." Then she smooches your cheek, calls you a fool one more time, and leaves without you.
# | 略 | Abbreviation, Abbreviate | りゃく | Rice Paddy + Kiss | You see a rice paddy and you give it a kiss before granting it the abbreviation, RP. The rice paddy isn’t too fond of this abbreviation, so you kiss it again to soothe it. As you imagine yourself giving a kiss to a rice paddy, think about whether or not the abbreviation RP would ever catch on. Do you think it would? The rice paddy still refuses to accept this abbreviation despite your kisses. Therefore, you are forced to take the rice paddy and hang it from a torture rack (りゃく) until it agrees to accept the abbreviation. Imagine the rice paddy on the rack, squealing for mercy. Turn the handle to turn the rack, causing the rice paddy even more discomfort.
# | 積 | Accumulate | せき ; つ | Grain + Blame | Grains get blamed for how much they accumulate. If the grains accumulate too much then they make more work for the farmers. If they accumulate too little, then they're starving the people. Ugh, grains just can't win with you people. They're blamed for everything. Picture a pile of grains accumulating in size while a person watches. No matter how large the pile gets, the person keeps blaming them for something! Now the grains have accumulated a ton, they're overflowing in their grain sacks, and the farmer freezes and says, "Now those are some sexy (せき) grains." Is that why people become farmers? Because they think... accumulating a lot of grains is sexy? People are weird.
# | 添 | Append | てん ; そ | Tsunami + Heaven + Small + Drop | There’s a tsunami in heaven and you take a small drop of water and append it to the tsunami. Now the tsunami is big enough to destroy all of heaven. The small drop that you appended to the tsunami was just enough to push it over the edge, reaching full destruction capability. Take a small drop of water and append it to the tsunami. Feel the drop of water on your finger and visualize yourself flicking it at the tsunami as it races towards heaven. Just after you append the small drop of water to the tsunami, it grows ten (てん) stories high. Before it was only nine, but since you appended that drop, the tsunami is now a full ten stories tall. Look up at this ten story tall tsunami. It looks big and powerful. Feel the water spray from the tsunami as it towers over you.
# | 寄 | Approach | き ; よ | Roof + Odd | Under this roof someone odd is trying to approach you. You back up, but they continue their approach anyway. Imagine being under the same roof as an odd person who wants to approach you. You don't want anything to do with them, but they won't back off. They approach too closely and you can't take it anymore. You run out from under the roof, slam the door closed, and lock it with a key (き). You hold the key tightly in your hand and press your ear to the roof. You can still hear the odd person... thing(?) approaching. Hopefully this key keeps it away.
# | 宴 | Banquet | えん ; うたげ | Roof + Sun + Woman | Under a roof, but still in the sun, a woman is laying out a fabulous banquet. The woman doesn't want anyone to burn from the sun, but banquets are best outside, so she's set up a roof to protect her and her guests. Picture a large banquet of food on a sunny day, covered by an outdoor roof, and a woman carefully setting it all up. Unfortunately, the banquet roof comes crashing down right before the guests arrive, and it ends (えん) before it can start. Honestly though, have you ever been to a banquet that ended well? Something always goes wrong when you have that many people under one roof.
# | 板 | Board | ばん, はん ; いた | Tree + Anti | If you're anti-tree, you won't mind if I turn all of them into boards! Hahaha! "Boards are much more useful than trees." - The Anti-Tree Association. Now picture this sign on a big machine that's cutting up all the trees into big boards. Turning every tree you could lay your eyes on into boards has gotten the attention of the Tree Lovers Association. "Banned (ばん), BANNED, I say!", they shouted at you. You couldn't care less about getting banned from the Tree Lovers Association. You and your Anti-Tree Association still keep on turning every tree into boards, ban or no ban. Damn those trees!
# | 壊 | Break | かい ; こわ | Dirt + Cross + Net + Clothes | You set up a net on a cross to wash your clothes in the river, when a huge wave of dirt smashes into it, breaking the whole thing and sending your clothes tumbling down the river. Oh, why did it have to break! If the net had been strong enough, your clothes wouldn't be even more dirty and lost down the river right now. You angrily search to see what caused your clothes washing machine to break and you see some kayaks (かい) upriver. The people in the kayaks are jumping around, kicking dirt up, which is what broke your stuff. "Hey you, kayak lovers!" you scream, "How dare you break my stuff, I'll get you and all the kayaks out there! You'll pay!"
# | 僚 | Colleague | りょう | Leader + Charcoal | A good leader will use charcoal to mark her colleagues. Sometimes if leaders aren't around all the time, people will get rebellious and act badly toward people who can get them in trouble. So when you mark them with charcoal you know that someone close with your leader is around and you should probably stop being a butt. Imagine seeing one of the leader's colleagues walking around, watching you. You'd get back to work and stop goofing around, right? You have to be good around her colleagues, because if you aren't your row (りょう) boat permit will be taken away. Row boating is the only fun you ever get to have, besides learning kanji. So act as best you can around the leader's colleagues so you don't lose your row boat rights. Imagine goofing off in your row boat and then seeing one of the colleagues waiting on the shore for you. No! She's gonna take your row boat away!
# | 杯 | Cup Of Liquid, Counter For Cups | はい | Tree + Not | A tree is not a cup of liquid or a counter for cups. Don’t get them mixed up. The last time you tried making a cup out of a tree to count your throat got filled with splinters when you used it. There wasn't even any liquid in it. Imagine cutting a tree into a cup of liquid and focus on the pain in your throat when you try to actually use it. Instead you kick the tree and angrily count cups of liquid in your head, because they simply are NOT the same. Another way to remember the counter for cups using a cup of liquid would be by creating and memorizing a haiku (はい) about them. Aren’t haikus useful? Think of a haiku about a cup of liquid and a counter for cups. Use that haiku to help remember this kanji.
# | 娘 | Daughter | むすめ | Woman + Good | A woman who is good is my daughter. My daughter is a good woman, I guarantee it. Look at how good this woman is! She’s my daughter! She’s good! You wish your daughter was as good a woman as mine is! Your daughter, on the other hand, is not a good woman. Your daughter looks like a moose who may (むすめ) not be able to find its way out of a wet paper bag. Your daughter looks like a moose who may lose its way without a map. Your daughter looks like a moose who may do lots of stupid things. Think about how your daughter is basically a moose who may do dumb things. How ashamed you feel. How very, very ashamed. Unlike how I feel about my wonderful, perfect, not a moose-like daughter.
# | 診 | Diagnose | しん ; み | Say + Hat + Hair | They say to wear a hat to cover your hair if your doctor diagnoses you with hair loss. It's the best option, folks. Imagine the doctor diagnosing you with hair loss. He pulls out a hat and places it on your poor, thinning hair. You just had the doctor diagnose you with hair loss. How terrible! You stumble out of the room, dumbfounded. Not paying attention, you bang your shin (しん) on the table. Your shin really hurts. What an awful day. Hold your shin as you feel the throbbing pain in it. Even though the pain is so extreme, you can’t help but still think about the diagnosis you got from the doctor.
# | 督 | Director, Supervise | とく | Above + Small + Stool + Eye | Above you on a small stool is the eye of the one who will direct and supervise you at work. He’s really high above you, so all you can see is the glint of his supervising eye. But you can hear him shouting directions clearly, telling you exactly what to do. Look up and see that eye, shining down and supervising you closely. Hear the man shouting as he directs you in one task after another. It makes you uncomfortable, honestly. A man who can direct others so well must be Tokugawa (とく) Ieyasu. Sure enough, when he finally comes down off his stool you see that he’s the ghost of Tokugawa Ieyasu!!! That explains why you could only make out the ghostly gleam of his supervising eye before. Tokugawa lingers before you in full shogun garb, then nods his head in approval, winks, and disappears.
# | 乾 | Dry | かん ; かわ, ほ | Morning + Gun + Nose | In the morning, you use a gun on your nose to make it dry. Don't worry, there aren't bullets in the gun. It's an air gun! So just imagine shooting the air into your nose every morning to make sure it's nice and dry. This technique for a nice dry nose was invented by Genghis Khan (かん)! Well, not him, but someone who worked under him. You see, he had a bit of a damp nose problem. Now the next time you manage to get your nose nice and dry, think back to our founding father Genghis Khan and thank him for where you are today.
# | 欧 | Europe | おう | District + Lack | A district that lacks things will be in Europe. Picture a map of Europe in your mind. Now picture little words saying which district is lacking what. This one is lacking water. That one is lacking food. Europe is lacking so much because their 王 (おう) keeps taking everything. Okay, so maybe this is an old view of Europe. But back in the old days the 王s there would take everything from their subjects, so every district would lack something. Good thing things aren't that way now, huh?
# | 恐 | Fear | きょう ; おそ, こわ | Saw + Heart | A saw cuts into your heart and you are filled with fear. Well, you were filled with fear before the saw reached your heart too, but now that the saw is cutting into your heart, you’re feeling more fear than ever. Try and imagine this saw slicing into your heart. Are you filled with fear? You should be. Even more so than your fear of dying, you are filled with the fear that you’ll never get to vacation in きょうと. You always wanted to take a trip to きょうと, but if you die from this saw wound to the heart, you’ll never get the chance to go. I fear you’ll never make it to きょうと. Think of きょうと and how you long for it as you slowly die from that saw wound to the heart.
# | 猛 | Fierce | もう ; たけ | Animal + Child + Plate | An animal eats a child from a plate in a very fierce manner. This is a fierce animal, so it makes sense that it would eat the child in a fierce style. See the fierce animal fiercely eating the child from the plate. It’s very gruesome. See blood and body parts flying everywhere as the animal devours the child. The reason this fierce animal is eating the child from the plate is because the child forgot to mow (もう) the animal’s lawn. The fierce animal had hired the child to mow his lawn today, and when the child forgot to do it, the fierce animal hunted the child down and ate him. That child really shouldn’t have forgotten to mow the lawn. Imagine you are the child, being eaten by the fierce animal and wishing that you would have just mowed the lawn like you said you would.
# | 江 | Inlet, Bay | え ; こう | Tsunami + Construction | A tsunami rolls in and destroys all the construction that was being done on the inlet and the bay. Both the inlet and the bay were having a lot of construction done on them to repair the damage from the last tsunami, and then another tsunami rolled in and destroyed all that too. Bummer. Picture all the construction on the bay and the inlet getting destroyed by the tsunami. Look at all of it fall apart and crash to the ground as the tsunami knocks it down. Imagine yourself right near the action, feeling the water spray from the tsunami. Imagine the Japanese people standing on the bay and the inlet as the tsunami approaches. “Eh (え)? What is that, Akiko?” “Eh? Where? Oh gawd, it’s a tsunami!!” EH? A tsunami you say? Those construction areas are screwed, man. Again, imagine the tsunami demolishing the area. Then be all like, “Eh? A tsunami? Aw, man.”
# | 韓 | Korea | かん | Morning + Korea | In the morning, Korea will still be Korea. Picture Korea first thing in the morning. You can see all the cities, the countryside, everything waking up. Korea is still here today on this beautiful morning because of Genghis Khan (かん). When he was conquering all that land in Asia and Europe he looked at Korea in the morning light and said, "Nah, they can keep it." Picture Genghis Khan admiring Korea from afar, but letting it live on.
# | 雄 | Male, Brave | ゆう ; おす, お | Narwhal + Private + Turkey | The narwhal and the turkey are meeting in private to uh, show each other some private things. Doing this they realize they're both male! Picture a male narwhal and a male turkey meeting together in private. Whispering. Giggling. Pointing at each other's male bits. These male animals are obviously experimenting with things still. Ah, they must be youths (ゆう)!  To be a youth, again! It's just nature. Youths like to learn and try new things. And if two male youth animals wanna get together in private that's their business.
# | 玄 | Mysterious | げん ; くろ | Mysterious | The mysterious radical and the mysterious kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! There is no one more mysterious than Genji (げん). He's tall, dark, handsome, and most of all... 〜mysterious〜! Who's the mysterious man who's always reciting poetry? Genji! Who's the mysterious man who gets all the ladies? Genji! Who's the mysterious man crying over there because someone turned him down? G... Genji...
# | 航 | Navigation | こう ; わたる | Boat + Lid + Table | On every boat there is a table with a lid on it that's used for navigation. When you take the lid off, there is a big map, a sextant, and some little boat miniatures. All the navigation tools. You forget to put the lid back on the navigation station and all those tools and boat pieces go flying around the boat and into the water. Oops. You watch the navigation equipment roll away and then you feel a slap on the back of your head. Ouch! You turn around and there stands こういち, who you took with you as the navigator of this expedition. And, you just lost all his stuff! Picture this seafaring こういち angrily chasing you around the ruined navigation station, trying to hit you with a telescope.
# | 監 | Oversee, Surveillance | かん | Servant + Gun + Ground + Plate | To the servant you say: "gun, ground, plate." It is your job to oversee everything they do. You point to the gun. You point to the ground (that's where the gun goes). You point to the plate (you want it). You have to oversee everything the servant does. Why must you oversee everything? Because you are Genghis Khan (かん), and Genghis Khan oversees everything. If anyone had to oversee a lot, it was Genghis Khan, who had one of the largest kingdoms in all of history.
# | 勧 | Recommend | かん ; すす | Arrow + Turkey + Power | There’s an arrow in that turkey and you do everything in your power to recommend that we don’t eat the turkey. There’s an arrow in this turkey. The arrow looks a little broken, so there’s probably splinters all up inside that turkey. I know you’re all hungry but I can’t recommend eating this bird. You can’t recommend this turkey. It’s probably dangerous. Imagine sending this turkey back in a restaurant, very upset with everything. Also keep in mind that the arrow is half buried in the turkey and looks a little broken since the arrow radical is a bit off. You recommend the Genghis Khan (かん) special instead of this arrow-tainted turkey! When it comes out, your heart sinks. Genghis Khan apparently ate a cow with an arrow broken off in it. Welp, I guess if Genghis Khan recommends eating food with weapons still in them, you're okay with recommending it too. Eat up, everyone.
# | 宗 | Religion | しゅう | Roof + Jackhammer | Under this roof you jackhammer your religion into people. It's a religion building. They have a lot of different names, churches, mosques, temples, cathedrals, but none of those matter. All that matters is that you really drill whichever religion you want into the heads of the people who come under your roof. Your religion requires everyone to take off their shoes (しゅう). Mostly because the shoes will help them resist the jackhammering, so you tell them that to join your religion they have to leave their shoes at the door. Picture the pile of shoes left outside. If you see a bunch of shoes like this you can be sure there's a religious place around here.
# | 請 | Request | せい, しん, しょう ; う, こ | Say + Blue | If what you say comes out blue, everyone knows that means you made a request. You request a favor and the words slide out of your mouth in a bright, blue blob. They hover in front of you for a few seconds, before splashing onto the person you made the request to. Picture this blue, slimy request. You could have done that thing by yourself, but you requested it of someone else, and now it's all over and everyone can see it. The next time someone requests something from you, take out your saber (せい) and slice it in half! Now they have the blue request gunk on them, and you can walk away as your already-blue sword absorbs the rest. Oh, and you don't have to fulfill the request (bonus!).
# | 怖 | Scary | ふ ; こわ | Soul + Narwhal + Towel | The soul of a narwhal was sucked into its towel, which is scary! Watch as the narwhal's face contorts as you see its soul get slurped out by the towel it was using. As you watch this scary scene you can't help but mutter, "Fool," (ふ) under your breath. Then you hear "Fool, fool, fool, it's too scary you fool!" and you realize all of the other narwhals are chanting. You don't know what's more scary. That the narwhal's soul got sucked out, or that all of its kind is calling it a fool now that it's dead.
# | 索 | Search | さく | Cross + Forehead + Thread | There is a cross in your forehead with a thread attached to it, forcing you to search where it leads. You’re not sure how the cross got stuck in your forehead, but you are interested in seeing where this piece of thread leads. The search is on. It hurts to have this cross stuck in your forehead, but try to ignore that as you search for where the thread leads. Imagine gathering the thread in your hands as you move along. Your search is over. You found the end of the thread. The thread leads you to a sack (さく). A sack filled with more crosses with more threads attached to them. What does it all mean!?! Why are there more crosses and threads in the sack? Are you supposed to take them from the sack and throw them at other people’s foreheads? Maybe. Imagine yourself reaching into the sack and throwing the crosses at other people.
# | 臣 | Servant, Retainer | しん, じん | Servant | The servant radical and the servant kanji are exactly the same! Just remember that the kanji also means retainer and you’ll be fine. Retainer and servant are basically the same thing, so remembering this one shouldn’t be too hard for you. Your servant, also known as your retainer, bangs his shins (しん) all the time so you make him wear jeans (じん) to work now. He bangs his shins on all the furniture in the house, knocking over all your valuables. But at least when he’s wearing jeans it doesn’t leave bruises like it did when he wasn’t wearing pants. Imagine your servant banging his shins on everything in your house. Hand him a pair of jeans and tell him to put them on to soften the blows.
# | 催 | Sponsor | さい ; もよお | Leader + Mountain + Turkey | The leader of the mountain turkeys is our sponsor. He's paying us to say and type everything you're reading. This message is brought to you by our generous sponsor, the leader of the mountain turkeys. Long may he reign. This same sponsor is also how you made your cyborg (さい). You didn't think you were able to get all those body parts yourself, did you? No no, the leader of the mountain turkeys sponsored you so you could do your experiments. Turn your cyborg over and you'll see a stamp under one of its feet. It says, "Sponsored by" with a little picture of a turkey on top a mountain.
# | 街 | Street | がい, かい ; まち | Dirt + Go | The dirt you use to go from place to place is the street. Back in the old days, all roads were made of dirt, not like the newfangled roads of today. Imagine using a dirt street to go from one place to another. As you're walking down the street, staring at the dirt, a guy (がい) bumps into you, "Hey guy, watch where you're going!" As he says this he bumps into another guy. "Watch it guy, I'm walkin' in this street!" "Woah guy, this isn't your business, this is my street!" You walk away from the two guys yelling and head down a different street. You hope all streets aren't full of loud guys.
# | 詰 | Stuffed | つ, づ ; きつ, きち | Say + Good Luck | Say good luck to one person enough and they'll be stuffed full of that luck. Better safe than sorry. Don't just say good luck once, make sure they're stuffed! You stuffed them by saying good luck two (つ) whole times! Picture a person with the actual words "good luck" stuffed into their body.
# | 緊 | Tense | きん | Servant + Stool + Thread | The servant sits on a stool, holding a piece of thread, looking very tense. You walk by this tense servant and pause for a moment. They raise their tense eyes up at you and you can see they're shaking. You ask the servant why they're so tense, and they say they've been assigned to assassinate the King (きん) of England with this piece of thread. Imagine how tense you would be if you were about to try to murder the King! Your entire body would tense up, maybe to the point that you wouldn't be able to actually go through with it.
# | 閣 | The Cabinet, Cabinet | かく | Gate + Kiss | At the gate, you kiss the cabinet members, one by one. In order to gain access to this government building, you have to kiss all the members of the cabinet at the gate. What a strange ritual. Imagine kissing all the members of the cabinet. A lot of them are old men. Imagine kissing all of them at the gate. Eww. You need to kiss each member of the cabinet to gain access to their building. And you need to get into the building to recover your cock (かく). Your prize winning cock has been captured by a member of the cabinet and you need to infiltrate their headquarters and recover your rooster! Imagine yourself sneaking past the cabinet members, finding your cock, grabbing it, and getting out of there. You’ve recovered your rooster! The day is won.
# | 促 | Urge | そく ; うなが | Leader + Foot | Your leader sees your bare foot and urges you to put a sock on it. Imagine your leader's face when he sees your bare foot, and just how emphatic he is as he urges you to put a sock on it. He's really worried your foot's going to get cold! As urged, you put a sock (そく) on your foot. Ahh, that feels so much better. What a great thing, this sock. Feel this sock on your foot. It feels great. Wiggle your toes around inside the sock as you think about how glad you are that you did as your leader urged. Note that this kanji also has the same reading as 足, so keep that in mind too!
# | 烈 | Violent, Intense | れつ ; はげ | Yakuza + Knife + Boil | When a yakuza's knife boils, you know something very violent and intense is about to happen. The yakuza member is so upset his knife boils. Right after, they will definitely get violent and intense. When someone gets violent or intense, they always yell "Let's (れつ) get violent and intense!" In the case of our mnemonic, it's a yakuza member getting violent. So, imagine a yakuza member saying "Ret's get violent!" before doing just that.
# | 魅 | Alluring | み | Demon + Jet | A demon on a jet is pretty alluring. Demons themselves are pretty intriguing, but put one on a jet? Now that’s alluring. See this demon flying around in his jet. Do you feel allured? You should. Hear the roar of the jet engine as the demon cackles. This alluring demon on a jet wants one thing and one thing only. Meat (み). Human meat. This demon needs human meat to survive so he is taking his jet into the city to feast on some meat. The demon won’t be so alluring once you see him scarfing down humans, tearing the meat from their bones. How gross.
# | 背 | Back, Height | はい ; せ, そむ | North + Moon | You fly north to the moon and break your back when you finally land on it. You weren’t braced for impact so when you hit the moon, your back took all of the impact. Imagine flying north to the moon. Feel the force of being rocketed through space on your journey. Now feel your spine telescope and your back break. It really hurts. Your back hurts so much that the only way to properly explain the pain is in haiku (はい) form. I flew to the moon. It is there I broke my back. My back hurts real bad. Say this haiku out loud. Memorize it and use this haiku to remember this kanji.
# | 騒 | Boisterous | そう ; さわ | Horse + Stool + Insect | A horse gets trapped in a small room with a stool and an insect, and together they create a very boisterous situation. The horse and the insect are both scrambling frantically to get out of the small room, knocking the stool around all over the place. Imagine the boisterous sounds coming from this small room. Hear the horse neigh and stomp his hooves, hear the insect buzzing loudly, and hear the wooden stool rattle around as the horse and insect try to escape the room. At the height of their boisterous sounds, there's a sudden, awful CRONCH(!) and you see the soul (そう) of the insect slowly rising out of the room, through the ceiling. The horse gets even more frightened now that it killed the insect and saw an actual soul float by its head and it grows even more boisterous.
# | 飾 | Decorate | しょく ; かざ | Eat + Gun + Towel | When you eat you want to see the shape of your gun from under a towel, so you decorate your house with them. Just picture it: an entire home decorated top to bottom with guns covered in towels, so only the outline shows. As your guests try to eat you say, "Guess what gun this is?! Haha, you got it wrong, pull the towel back." If you actually decorate your house like this it will give people quite a shock (しょく). In fact, they might be so shocked they run out of there screaming. Maybe you should be more conscious of other people when you decorate. Or at least, don't shock people into fainting or yelling or leaving. Guns do that, you know?
# | 預 | Deposit | よ ; あず | Beforehand + Geoduck | If you want to buy a geoduck you have to go to the bank beforehand to deposit enough money. If you don't deposit your money you won't have enough in your account to buy even one! They're expensive, after all. Imagine yourself depositing your money beforehand. Imagine the delicious geoduck you'll be able to buy now that the money has been deposited into your account! You go to the bank to make the deposit and there is a kid standing in your way playing with a yo-yo (よ). You try to squeeze past and he hits you in the face with the yo-yo! Now you can't see! Now you can't make the deposit! Imagine trying to make a deposit to your bank after getting hit in the face with a yo-yo. You can hardly see what you're shoving your money into. You hope it isn't the hands of the kid that hit you!
# | 渇 | Dry Up, Thirst | かわ ; かつ | Tsunami + Sun + Prison + Spoon | You're stuck in a prison on the scorching hot sun with nothing but a spoon. Lucky for you, a tsunami is coming, right as you can feel yourself completely dry up. So you take your spoon and use the tsunami to quench your thirst. Imagine the feeling of drinking spoon after spoon of refreshing tsunami water, replenishing your almost completely dried up body. You've been in this sun prison for longer than you can remember. You've been holding onto this spoon, waiting for this moment for so long. This method of quenching your thirst reminds you of being in a car wash (かわ). The water pours over you in waves, and you're stuck inside a metal cage. Totally the same thing as a car wash, right? Imagine quenching your thirst in a real car wash. Open your mouth and let the soapy water dump on over and in you. You'll never be thirsty again!
# | 版 | Edition | はん | One Sided + Anti | If you are anti one sided paper you should bind them all up into an edition. One sided paper is just anti everything. It's bad for the environment. It's bad for easy reading. Put all those one sided papers together into one, big edition instead. The first edition you create is a fan fiction all about the adventures of Han (はん) Solo. You hated how short and one sided his story in Star Wars seemed to be, and trying to keep track of it all was really hard. But not anymore! Please read my super special Han Solo edition of the Star Wars story. I ripped out all the one sided pages that had him in it and put them into a single edition together so it's just the good stuff now.
# | 柵 | Fence | さく ; しがらみ | Tree + Bookshelf | You've made yourself a tree bookshelf (that is, a bookshelf cut into a tree), so you build a fence to keep the riffraff out. Your tree bookshelf is often being raided by the neighbors, and since it's outside, all you can do is build a fence around it to protect it. Better check out that fence-building book in your tree bookshelf. On your fence, you hang up a sack (さく) to accept donations. People put money and books in your fence sack to keep your tree bookshelf well stocked.
# | 旗 | Flag | き ; はた | Direction + Gun + Crab | Traveling in the direction of the ocean, you take a gun and shoot a crab, then stick a flag in the beach and claim it as your own. The crab was the only thing standing in the way of you conquering the area. Now that the flag is in the ground, no one can dispute who it belongs to. Look at your flag and hear it flapping in the wind. Also hear your ears ringing a bit from when you shot that crab. Look at all the bits of exploded crab strewn around the area. Yowza. To make sure that no one removes your flag, you lock it to one of the lifeguard posts and you throw away the key (き). Since no one will have the key to unlock the flag, no one will be able to remove it. Picture yourself locking this flag up with your key. Imagine turning the key in the lock and hearing the click when it is secured.
# | 浮 | Float | う, うわ ; ふ | Tsunami + Cleat + Child | A tsunami knocks a cleat off a child and the shoe begins to float away in the water. This child was just out playing soccer, minding his own business, when the tsunami crashed in and knocked his cleats off his feet. Now the cleat is floating away with the tsunami. Your cleat is floating away but you’re floating too. The water is really deep now, but you try and float towards your cleat to retrieve it. Imagine floating in this wet water reaching for your lost cleat. While you float in the water, an uni (う) jabs into your foot. “Uwaaa~ (うわ)” you cry. That uni really hurts. They’re all spikey and painful and junk. “Uwaaaa~” Say “Uwaaa~” out loud a few times while you imagine an うに stabbing you as you float along with the tsunami water. What a day you’ve had.
# | 越 | Go Beyond | えつ ; こ | Run + Become | You run every day and soon you become a human that can go beyond the normal speed limits of man. You run and you run and you run. This training allows you to become super human. You go beyond the limits of a normal human. You become a human who can run really fast. Run fast! Go beyond the limits imposed upon you by nature! Imagine yourself running faster than any human has ever run ever. Feel yourself cutting through the air, wind breaking across you as you break the sound barrier. Boom! To solidify your ability to go beyond the abilities of other humans, you etch (えつ) sacred runes into your legs to preserve your running abilities. Etching these runes makes sure that your skills will never deteriorate. Etch these runes into your legs. Go ahead and run a finger over your legs and pretend to etch runes into them. These runes you etch will allow you to run fast forever.
# | 照 | Illuminate | しょう ; て | Sun + Call + Boil | The sun is being called on to boil the earth by illuminating it. We don't want the earth to actually boil, but we do want some of that boiling hot sun light to illuminate all of the darkness of the universe and let us see. The person who calls the sun asking it to illuminate the earth is the Shougun (しょう). It's very specifically the Shougun's responsibility to make sure the earth is illuminated every morning. Picture the Shougun calling out to the sun, asking it to illuminate our planet with its boiling hot rays. You better thank the Shougun the next time you see him for everything he does for you.
# | 漏 | Leak | ろう ; も | Tsunami + Flag + Rain | A tsunami rips a flag off your house in the rain, causing a leak where it was ripped out. The rain and the tsunami combined just tore the flag right off your house. The force was so strong that it actually removed part of the wall, and now you have a leak in your home. Look at this leak in your house and see the rain water coming in. Hear it drip drip dripping down the wall. The leak is getting worse and worse and so is the tsunami, when you see something outside. It’s a bunch of roe (ろう) floating in the waves. Using your quick thinking skills you scoop it up and shove it into the cracks where the water is leaking in. It works like a charm! Did you know that roe can plug any leak? It’s true. If you don’t mind wasting some, you should break a leak into your own house and then try to plug it back up again with some salmon roe.
# | 系 | Lineage | けい | Lineage | The lineage radical and the lineage kanji are the same. Know your radicals, yo! You trace your lineage back and realize that every single person in your family loved cake (けい). Most of them were cake bakers, too! You come from a lineage of cake makers and eaters. No wonder you love cake so much! (And if you hate cake, no wonder your family doesn't like you.)
# | 覧 | Look At | らん | Servant + Gun + Ground + See | A servant holding a gun sits on the ground to see if he can find something to look at. The servant is on watch duty and has the gun to protect the perimeter. He patrols the grounds to look at the distance to see if there are any trespassers. Look at this servant. He’s doing a great job. Oops, looks like he sees you. Yup, he’s pointing his gun at you. Imagine staring down the barrel of his gun as you slowly back away. You start backing away, but then you realize that you are Macho Man Randy (らん) Savage. Randy Savage backs away from no fight! I mean, look at this guy – this servant guy. Take away the gun and he’s not much to look at. You can take him. Pretend you are Macho Man Randy Savage. Run at this servant guy, take his gun away, and beat him up. Ohhh yeaaahhh!
# | 婚 | Marriage | こん | Woman + Clan + Sun | You meet a woman from another clan under the rising sun to prepare for marriage. Your clan and her clan are standing together as the two of you watch the sun rise together. Marriage is a big deal and it's going to connect your two clans, so you have to do the ceremony in the sun in front of everyone so they can see. For the marriage to be official, you need to wait for a condor (こん) to appear. If it doesn't show up before the sun goes down again, the marriage was a failure. You have to try again tomorrow with a different woman. Do you want to go through with this marriage? You better hope you see a condor then! It's the official bird of love and unification, ya know. That's why so many people wait until they're older to get married these days, because there aren't as many condors thanks to deforestation.
# | 懐 | Nostalgia | なつ, ふところ ; かい | Soul + Cross + Net + Clothes | Your soul will cross through your body and into the net of your clothes so that you'll be hit with nostalgia when you wear them again. Nostalgia for all the things that happened every single time you wore those clothes. When you put on an old piece of clothing, a shirt maybe, or some pants, feel the nostalgia that was embedded in it and left there by your soul. This nostalgia ties knots (なつ) in your stomach and your chest. Even if the memories and feelings weren't particularly bad, there's something about the wistful feeling of nostalgia that knots up your insides. Feel these nostalgic knots inside you. Now tie knots in the clothes that make you feel nostalgic so you don't wear them again.
# | 撮 | Photograph, Photo | さつ ; と | Fingers + Sun + Ear + Stool | You put your fingers and an ear on a stool in the sun so you can get your photograph taken. This is a glamour photo, so you have to be in one of these weird, cheesy poses for it to come out jusssst right. Imagine putting your fingers and your ear on a stool, now try to relax your head a little bit, and smile for the camera. This is a professional photograph, so you better do what you're told! As you're getting the photograph taken, the photographer suddenly gets angry at you. "You sat (さつ) down!" he screams. "I sat down?" you ask. "Yes! And now the photo is ruined!" You've never gotten a professional photograph taken before, but if you had known if you sat(s) down you'd ruin the shot you never would have. Remember everyone, if you sat down while your photo was being taken, you ruined it.
# | 枕 | Pillow | まくら | Tree + Pirate | The tree pirate jumps from a tree and attacks you by hitting you with a pillow. It hurts a little bit, but the fact that tree pirates use pillows as their weapons is a bit anticlimactic. As he hits you with his pillow he makes a demand: "Give me your Mac cooler (まくら). He wants the device that cools down your Mac computer. You give him your Mac cooler and he goes on his way. He's quite happy he can cool down his Mac, now. The trees are quite warm and he hears this will help to cool down his tree apples.
# | 遊 | Play | ゆう ; あそ | Scooter + Direction + Gun + Child | On a scooter running in one direction is a gun-toting child. This is a terribly dangerous situation, but to the child it is just play. Imagine a child riding a scooter with a gun having a good time. "Come play with me!" they shout. "No!" you yell back. Everything is play for youths (ゆう), even if it's a terrible, scary, not good situation like this one. Imagine trying to explain to the youth that this is not play and that they should stop, but them youths can't stop playing. P.S. From the WaniKani staff to you: Don't let youths play with guns, please.
# | 快 | Pleasant | かい ; こころよ | Soul + Person + Hook | The soul of a person has a hook that can make them pleasant. When you see, hear, or feel something pleasant, can't you feel that hook pressing into the middle of your body? Imagine that feeling you get when everything is just SO pleasant. There is a pressure from your soul's hook digging in. It's a good feeling though, a pleasant one! It isn't too hard or too soft. If you want to feel this pleasant feeling just look at a kayak (かい). Kayaks are the most pleasant boats in the world. Feel that pleasant feeling in your chest just from reading about kayaks in this mnemonic right now. Go look up pictures of kayaks to get some of that pleasant high. Mm, your soul is hooking you real good.
# | 貧 | Poor | びん, ひん ; まず | Part + Shellfish | Those that can only eat a part of a shellfish are probably a bit poor. Poor people can't even afford a whole shellfish. They have to settle with just a part. And since they are poor, they are getting these shellfish parts from the trash bin (びん). It's quite unfortunate. Imagine a poor person going through a garbage bin to find only a part of of a shellfish. What a sad sight.
# | 延 | Prolong | えん ; の | Yoga + Correct | If you do yoga correctly, you will not only prolong your body but your life! Do you want to prolong your life? Then do yoga correctly! You can prolong your life with correct yoga techniques, but unfortunately, if you ever stop doing yoga after you've started this prolonging process, it will just end (えん) suddenly. Correct yoga will prolong your life but no yoga will end it. Do you think that's a fair trade?
# | 押 | Push | お ; おう | Fingers + Turtle Shell | Take your fingers, put them on this turtle shell, and push push push! Push the turtle right on out of there. Picture yourself using your fingers to push a turtle out of its shell. It really doesn't want to leave, so you have to push really hard. You're trying to push this turtle out so you can use the shell for your new obi (お). You keep seeing other people wearing turtle shell patterns on their obi, but you're going to go a step further. You're going to MAKE your obi out of actual turtle shells! You just have to push this darn turtle out first. Imagine pushing some turtle shells flat to make a beautiful obi. Wear it out, watch everyone gasp in awe. Oh... oh no! They're trying to push you out of your obi like you did the turtle. They're mad about your turtle crime!
# | 乏 | Scarce | ぼう ; とぼ | Leaf + Hills | If you look for a leaf among the hills you will notice they are scarce. The hills have no trees around them, so there are no leaves. The leaves are scarce here on the hills. Imagine being on the hills. You want a leaf to find and take back as a souvenir but there are none. Imagine looking feverishly for a leaf even though you don’t really expect to find one. Still looking for a leaf, you determine that they are far too scarce to find here. Just before you give up, you discover a giant bowling (ぼう) ball. As you pick it up, another one comes thundering down the hill knocking over a tiny tree. Leaves are scarce here because someone is using these hills for their bowling. The bowling balls knock over everything, and leaves can't grow.
# | 匂 | Smell, Scent | にお | Prison + Spoon | You're stuck in prison with nothing but a spoon, and the smell in here is so bad you’re using the prison spoon to waft it outside as best you can. It smells awful in this prison. You have to act fast with your prison spoon to get rid of all the bad smells! You can’t believe how awful these smells are. You’re new in prison, so you call them all neo-smells (にお). They're neo, they're new to you. Try to come up with some neo-smells right now. There’s the neo-food smell (prison cafeteria pizza, maybe) and the neo-laundry smell of course (your prison uniform). Can you think of any other neo-smells?
# | 盗 | Steal | とう ; ぬす | Next + Plate | The next plate is the one you will steal. This one would be too obvious, better wait for the next one. Wait for this next plate. Here it is—now steal it! Imagine stealing this plate and making off with it. You steal this plate from a とうきょう restaurant, so after you steal it, picture yourself running through the streets of とうきょう as you lose your pursuers. Be careful not to drop that plate! Wouldn’t want to steal something just to break it. Imagine running through the streets of とうきょう. See all the sights and hear all the sounds. Just don’t get too distracted, you gotta get to a safe place and stash your stolen plate away.
# | 購 | Subscription | こう | Shellfish + Lifeguard | Picture a shellfish lifeguard. They're not going anywhere. First, they're a shellfish, so they can't really move. And, they're a lifeguard, so they need to be in their lifeguard tower. How does this shellfish lifeguard get stuff? Through subscription services. See a bunch of subscription boxes around the lifeguard tower. It gets everything this way. The shellfish lifeguard's favorite subscription is its subscription to こういち magazine. It has all the latest こういち versions, news, and interviews. See the shellfish lifeguard drooling as its こういち magazine subscription arrives. "I will read this one now, but I can't wait until next month," it says as a boat sinks in the distance. Hint: when you see the "lifeguard" radical, the reading is probably going to be こう.
# | 適 | Suitable | てき | Scooter + Mohawk | A scooter with a mohawk, now that's the most suitable hairstyle you could ever think of for a scooter! You keep seeing scooters all over the city with mohawks and you can't get it out of your head that it's the most suitable thing you've ever seen. You want this suitable hairstyle for your scooter too, and luckily you're a techie (てき), so it's easy for you to install one. Imagine going online to check out some of your techie message boards and learning the most suitable mohawk for your scooter then installing it yourself.
# | 翌 | The Next, The Following | よく | Feathers + Stand | Whenever all the feathers start standing, you know it's time for the next day. Once the day comes to its end, all feathers start standing up like clockwork. Imagine every single feather simultaneously standing up once the next day gets closer. It's like some kind of ritual that's repeated at the end of every single day. Must be stressful to be a feathered animal! With the next day approaching and all feathers standing up, you get ready to drink your usual liter of yolk (よく). Yes, you heard that right. Imagine having to drink an entire liter of egg yolk at the end of each day. Just like the feathers have their ritual of standing up, you have your own ritual of downing a liter of egg yolk. Just don't ask questions.
# | 符 | Token | ふ | Bamboo + Attach | You take some bamboo and attach it together into a token of appreciation for your friend. Your friend greatly appreciates this token of friendship. Imagine trying to attach some bamboo together into a token for someone. You hand over the token but your friend drops it and yells, "You fool (ふ)! I'm allergic to bamboo!" Imagine the embarrassment you feel, forgetting they were allergic to bamboo. Oh well, it’s the thought that counts. You’re still a fool, though.
# | 濡 | Wet, Damp | ぬ ; じゅ | Tsunami + Rain + Rake | If a tsunami hits, it's raining, and you're outside trying to use a rake, you're going to be very wet and damp. Imagine how wet and damp you'd be with tsunami water up to your knees and rain pouring down on your head. You struggle with your rake anyway. You can't stand how wet and damp you feel in these clothes so you rip them off and rake in the nude (ぬ)! You're still wet, but at least you don't have the feeling of damp clothes touching your body now. You'll have to be really careful raking in the nude though.
# | 帯 | Belt | たい ; おび | Mountain + Ground + Forehead + Towel | There's a mountain coming out of the ground that you want to climb, but your forehead needs a towel for all your sweat. You don't have a towel, so you take off your belt and tie it around your forehead. The belt is easy to tighten and it catches all the sweat before it can fall into your eyes. It isn't quite as absorbent as a towel though. The belt isn't absorbent enough, so you wrap it in your tie (たい) and then tie the whole thing around your forehead again. It works! Your belt tied in a tie is the perfect invention!
# | 廊 | Corridor | ろう | Canopy + Guy | The canopy guy is a guy who stands in the corridor trying to sell people canopies. You walk through this corridor every day, and the canopy guy always accosts you with canopy sales. You wish there was another corridor you could take, but it's the only way to get where you want to go. You take the corridor, but this time the canopy guy is gone. In his place is a new salesman. This one is trying to sell you roe (ろう). The roe salesman in the corridor is worse than the canopy salesman. They're both insistent, but the roe salesman smells bad.
# | 離 | Detach | り ; はな | Rocket + Turkey | The rocket turkey has several points which will detach during takeoff. Imagine the rocket turkey taking off. Just like a regular rocket, as it goes up, used pieces of the turkey rocket detach and fall back to the ground. When the rocket turkey parts detach, they fall to the ground onto a bed of reeds (り). The reeds catch on fire - probably best not to fire off turkey rockets so close to these fields of reeds. Imagine the launch site completely surrounded by reeds.
# | 径 | Diameter | けい | Loiter + Tombstone | You loiter around a tombstone to measure its diameter. You’re doing this to each tombstone, and if you loiter around long enough, you’ll soon know the diameter of every tombstone. Imagine loitering around a tombstone. You're leaning on it. You're staring at nothing. Oh, and you're also measuring its diameter. You need to know the diameter of each tombstone so you can make cakes (けい) for each one. But the cakes can't be wider than the tombstones, or they'll flop off onto the ground. These carefully measured tombstone-diameter cakes are your special way of saying thanks to the ghosts for letting you loiter around their graves.
# | 融 | Dissolve | ゆう | Bully + Insect | You see a bully take an insect and dissolve it in some acid. Bullies are messed up, mean people. They do awful things that normal kids and people wouldn't do... like dissolve a living creature. Actually... try to forget this one. Don't think about a bully dissolving things in acid. Think happy thoughts. Like... the bully getting dissolved instead and all the little insects coming back to life and being happy. The only bullies heartless enough to dissolve insects like this are youths (ゆう). Do you really think an adult would melt a harmless critter? No. Only inexperienced youths could be so cruel. When you first read this and you pictured the bully dissolving the insect, you pictured them as a youth, right? See? It makes complete sense.
# | 均 | Equal | きん ; ひと | Dirt + Pool + Drop | You have some dirt next to a pool that has an extra drop of water in it because you need them to be equal. If there's too much dirt outside the pool and not enough water inside, it's gonna look weird. We can't have that. Imagine seeing a pool that isn't equal. It's like a tiny kiddy pool with an inch of water. And it's surrounded by mounds of dirt. No no no, this won't do—add more water to make them equal. You spend a few hours making sure the water-to-dirt ratio is perfectly equal, not for yourself, but because the King (きん) of England told you to. You may agree that equality is important, but it's the King's responsibility to keep things that way. Which is why he ordered you, small peon, to do the equalizing work for him. Okay, so the existence of a king kind of makes things not, well, equal, for all people. But at least aesthetically everything will be!
# | 豪 | Exceptional, Luxurious | ごう | Lid + Mouth + Forehead + Pig | You put a lid on a dish you're cooking, made up of the mouths and foreheads of a pig. This is truly an exceptional dish you are cooking up. Mix those pig mouths and foreheads in your pot. Think of how exceptional your soup looks. Exceptional pig mouth forehead soup is a favorite of Grandpa ごういち. You see him sniffing around your window, then he knocks and waves. "Can I have some of your exceptional soup?" Grandpa ごういち asks. "It smells so swell."
# | 除 | Exclude, Remove | じょ, じ ; のぞ | Building + Surplus | The buildings are at a surplus. Because of that, we will need to exclude some of them from our future plans. Also, we'll need to remove some buildings too. Say you're looking at a map of the city, with all the buildings laid out on it. There are too many, so you start marking which ones to exclude from the building plans. You also remove some buildings from the map all together. Working with you on this project to exclude buildings from the plan, as well as remove buildings that already exist is little Jo-Anne (じょ). She's pointing out buildings to exclude / remove with great ferocity. "Remove this one. Exclude this one. Oh, and remove this one too."
# | 貨 | Freight | か | Change + Shellfish | You want to change your shellfish into freight so you can transport it. That means packing them up into giant freight containers. Imagine changing your shellfish from loose, wet form, to solid freight form. It's actually a lot of hard work. To move this freight, you need a car (か). You strap all of the freight containers to the top of your car, stacked nice and high and precarious, so you can move it. Picture all of this freight stacked on top of your car. As you drive the car, every turn you make feels slow and heavy from the freight weight.
# | 孫 | Grandchild | そん ; まご | Child + Lineage | A child shares his lineage with a grandchild. The child passes his lineage down to his child and then that child’s child is the grandchild and between them all a lineage is shared. Look at this family tree. See the child, and then the grandchild. Trace the lineage with your finger as you observe. The son (そん) of a son is a grandchild. In this case, a grandson. Easy. Just remember that a son is all you really want. You need a son to carry on the family name and the lineage. So make sure that your child and your grandchild are both sons.
# | 墓 | Grave | ぼ ; はか | Dirt + Greenhouse | There's a strange patch of dirt in this greenhouse that's actually a grave. Dig around a little and you'll find the marker buried in there. If you dig deeper you'll probably find less pleasant things. I guess it makes sense to have a grave in a greenhouse. The heat will help the body decompose, then that nice, rich dirt will help the flowers grow. You decide to dig even deeper into the grave out of curiosity and you find a bow (ぼ) and some arrows. This must be the grave of a great archer! But you probably shouldn't keep digging around in this grave looking for more stuff. Hold the grave bow in your hands. It smells like dirt and wood. Maybe no one will notice if you take it... though you may end up haunted by whoever is buried in this grave.
# | 幾 | How Many, How Much | いく ; き | Poop + Drunkard + Person | You poop twice on a sleeping drunkard person and you find yourself wondering how many more times you can poop on them and wonder how much they can take before they realize what’s going on. You’ve already pooped twice on this drunkard, how many more times can you do it? How much do you think this person can take? Just imagine yourself doing this. As you continue thinking about how much poop this drunkard can take and how many more poops you can drop on him, he begins to wake up. Quickly, you eke (いく) out one last poop before you scurry away. You eke that poop out just in time to make your escape. Imagine yourself as you eke out that last poop. Really concentrate on eking it out so you can get away in time. Flex your butt muscles for added effect.
# | 尋 | Inquire | じん ; たず, ひろ | Wolverine + Construction + Mouth + Measurement | Wolverine is doing a construction job and he’s using his mouth to measure so he knows how many folks he needs to inquire about helping him with the job. Using one’s mouth is a strange way to measure something, but that’s just how Wolverine does things. Once he measures it all out, he’ll know how many construction workers he needs to inquire about working for him. Imagine Wolverine going around, measuring the construction site with his mouth. Look at him with his mouth wide open, wandering around the site deep in thought. What a weirdo. You decide to inquire as to why Wolverine is using his mouth to measure out this construction site. As you get closer you notice his cool ripped jeans (じん). Instead you inquire how he got such a fresh style. He looks you up and down, pulls out his claws, and tears yours up to match his. You’ve completely forgotten what it was you were asking, but who cares! Look how great you look! Look down at your ripped up jeans. You’re so fashionable now! Just like good old ‘90s Wolvie.
# | 編 | Knit | へん ; あ | Thread + Library | Bring thread to the library to knit. Libraries are quiet and generally pretty empty nowadays, so it's the perfect place to relax and do some knitting. Of course, if you find thread lying around in a library you know what to do now. Picture yourself sitting on a rocking chair in the library knitting away. It's quiet and peaceful and the light is warming you just right. Ahh, bliss! You need to come to the library to knit because if you try to do it at home all your hens (へん) will try to eat the thread. Hens love eating things that look like worms, like hay, string, and thread. So it's important to get far away from them before you start to knit. Imagine the granny or grampy you are (and must be to have hens and want to knit in peace in a library). You're tired of these hens eating your thread while you try to knit sweaters for all your grandbabies so you come to the library.
# | 陸 | Land | りく | Building + Womb | A building made from a womb must be placed upon the land. Why must it be placed upon the land? If it were put in water, it would dissolve too quickly. So, you put your womb building on the land, instead. The land around your womb building will, unfortunately, reek (りく) though. It's made of biological materials, so of course it will reek.
# | 探 | Look For, Search For | たん ; さが, さぐ | Fingers + Pi + Tree | If you want to get your fingers in the pi tree, you're going to have to look for it. This isn't a tree made of pie, or growing fully-baked pies. It's a pi tree, one that exists infinitely. It's the most rare tree in the world. And if you want to stick your fingers in it, you have to search for it far and wide! Imagine it like a quest from a book or movie. You have a band of travelers, and you're all out searching for it together! You try to look for the pi tree for so long that you can't help but get a very deep tan (たん). You can't search for anything inside, and you definitely can't find the pi tree inside, so you spend a lot of time outside in the bright sun. Feel the sun's rays on your skin as you search and search and search for the tree. Watch as your skin gets darker, crispier, and hmm, smells like cooked meats. Now that's a good tan.
# | 鑑 | Model | かん ; かんが, かがみ | Gold + Oversee | You are given some gold to oversee a model. You are a famous architect, so you get a lot of gold for overseeing the construction of models like this one. Feel the gold, heavy in your pockets, as you oversee this model being built. Observe it and watch as it grows under your watchful eye. As the model nears completion, you realize it's taking the shape of Genghis Khan (かん). Was that what this was supposed to look like? You were so busy overseeing the gold in your pocket, you forgot! You watch nervously as this model of Genghis Khan is finished. You're really not sure if this is who you were meant to model it after, but it's too late to change it now. Genghis Khan it is!
# | 泥 | Mud | でい ; どろ | Tsunami + Flag + Spoon | A tsunami came in and buried your flag so now you have to use a spoon and dig it out of the mud. Imagine using a spoon to dig your flag outta all this mud. So much mud! Feel its cold, soiled wetness on your hands as you dig away. The time of day (でい) is high noon, so the sun soon dries the mud and makes it harder to dig through. It just might take you all day to spoon your way through this mud. Imagine yourself out in the day, continuing to dig through the now hardened mud. Feel your arm getting tired as day slowly turns to night.
# | 巣 | Nest | す ; そう | Grass + Fruit | Birds use grass and fruit to make their nests. Picture a cute little nest with a family of birds in it. It looks like it was woven together with bits of grass and strawberries, so it smells delicious too. The bottom of the nest also seems to be padded with someone's suit (す). Did... did this bird attack a human for this?! Picture the nest, made of grass, fruit, and the suit of the angry salaryman who's shouting below the tree, and missing the top half of his suit.
# | 普 | Normal | ふ | Line Up + Sun | You line up your body with the sun and everything looks normal.  The sun is lined up behind you, and you’re looking at all the things the sun has lit up. Everything looks normal. Gaze out in a line from the sun as you observe the world. Everything is very normal looking and comforting. Soon you see something that doesn’t look so normal. It’s a fool (ふ), a jester. Dressed all in fool’s garb, this fool is dancing up towards you with a ridiculously unsettling grin on his face. Imagine this creepy looking fool as he approaches. He’s kind of freaking you out. Feel very uncomfortable as you continue looking at this fool.
# | 妨 | Obstruct, Impede | ぼう ; さまた | Woman + Direction | A woman with direction will have things obstruct her path. It's a sad fact that it's still a man's world out there! Picture this woman with direction, knocking down obstruction after obstruction on her path to success. This woman is truly magnificent. Some compare her to a bowling (ぼう) ball, because of how she knocks down the obstructions in her path like bowling pins. Now imagine that she actually is a bowling ball. Watch her roll down the bowling lane and smash all those stupid pins!
# | 棒 | Pole, Rod, Wooden Pole | ぼう | Tree + Spring + Dry | A tree in spring that's nice and dry will make a good pole or rod. Break it out of the ground and it's just flexible enough for tons of applications. Use this pole to hang your towels or curtains. Ooh, use it to pole vault! After much deliberation, you decide to use this pole to go bowling (ぼう). You line up a few more poles for the pins, and roll a rock toward them. You decide to name this super hard, pole bowling tree-pole-pin bowling. Even harder than candlepin. The thinnest, most extreme pole bowling of all time!
# | 粉 | Powder | ふん ; こな, こ | Rice + Part | If you grind rice, every part of it, eventually it will become a fine powder. You can then use this rice powder as a part to create some other dish. Some kind of cake, perhaps. Imagine yourself grinding this rice into a powder. Hear the scrape of the rice on stone as you grind it down to the finest powder. Actually, grinding the rice down to a powder is super fun (ふん). It’s so fun you don’t want to stop! AH HAHAHAHA! RICE POWDER! SO FUN! Okay, we got a little carried away there. Just keep in mind how fun this is. Make sure you say fun with a little bit of a Scottish accent. You know what they say, Scots have more fun!
# | 既 | Previously | き ; すで | Root + Fang | There's a root where your fang previously was. Your fang isn't there anymore, you ripped it out. Look at the root where your fang previously was. Previously, when you were young, you had a lot of nice fangs but they're all rotting as you get older and you pull them out. To remember the beautiful fangs you previously had, you keep all of the ones you pull out in a box you lock with a key (き). Previously you didn't have a key, but now you do to keep your old fangs safe.
# | 救 | Rescue | きゅう ; すく | Request + Winter | You request that winter rescue you from the warmth of the other seasons. It's so hot. You hate it. You really hope winter will get your request and come early to rescue you. You get a note in the mail from winter! This is it, you're going to be rescued! You open the note and it says, "I have rescued you with this cucumber (きゅう)." A cucumber falls out of the note. This cucumber is supposed to be cool and refreshing enough to rescue you from the heat. I guess it was too much to expect winter to come early just for you. At least cucumbers are yummy.
# | 似 | Resemble | に ; じ | Leader + Lion + Drop + Person | A leader of (odd-looking) lions puts a drop of magic liquid on his face to look like a person resembles someone else. The leader of lions is going incognito, so he needs to resemble a person who is not himself. He takes this drop of powerful face paint and transforms. Watch this leader as the transformation takes place. Now he doesn’t resemble anything like the leader he used to be. He doesn’t look like the same person. Watch him morph in your head. Now he resembles an even greater leader, and all the lions get down on one knee (に) to pay their respects. (Note that we recently changed this kanji's main reading from ね to に, because ね is an irregular reading.) See all the odd-looking lions respectfully getting down on one knee? They look even odder now.
# | 富 | Rich | ふ ; と, とみ | Roof + Scarecrow | On your roof is a scarecrow because you're rich. You want to scare away all the poor, non-rich people so you put a scarecrow on your roof. Imagine looking up at the roof at this scarecrow. There's a sign around its neck that says, "Rich people welcome." Ah, you're safe. Time to go to bed! You wake up the next morning and all of your riches have been stolen! You call the police and they call you a fool (ふ)! Pardon me?! "You basically put an advertisement on your roof telling everyone you're rich. Of course you got robbed, you fool." You poor sad, no longer rich fool.
# | 散 | Scatter | さん ; ち | Blackjack + Moon + Winter | If you play blackjack on the moon in the winter, your cards will scatter everywhere. The cards scatter because the gravity is so weak on the moon, so the blackjack game is prone to disaster. Imagine playing blackjack on the moon where even the slightest move causes the cards to scatter about. Watch them float along. It’s very frustrating to play this way. You are playing blackjack with Santa-san (さん). Santa-san is doing his best to use his Christmas magic to prevent the scatter of cards, but it’s not working out so well. Good effort, Santa-san. Imagine yourself next to Santa-san as he tries to prevent the cards from scattering. Look at the expression of concentration on Santa-san’s face as he tries to prevent the scatter.
# | 華 | Showy, Flower, Gorgeous | か ; はな | Flowers + Rice Paddy + Cross | Flowers growing out of a rice paddy into the shape of a cross are really showy flowers. Picture these showy flowers growing straight up and out of the middle of the rice paddy, into the shape of a giant cross. These flowers are too showy. You hate them. You hate these showy flowers so much you run them over with your car (か)! Imagine how the car feels as you ram into the showy flowers. The petals explode and rain everywhere. You turn on your windshield wipers to push them away.
# | 嘆 | Sigh | たん ; なげ | Mouth + Chinese | You use your mouth when you see a Chinese person and you sigh. You sigh so loud that it’s practically a roar coming out of your mouth. Chinese people and Chinese things make you sigh because it reminds you of when you stayed in China and it brings up memories. The sigh is a sigh of nostalgia. Let out a long sigh as you recall memories from China and all the Chinese things you saw and did. Oh, sigh. Your favorite Chinese thing to do is tan (たん). You can wander around without your shirt on and tan all day. No one will sigh or scoff at you, it’s perfectly acceptable. The Chinese just love to get their tan on. Sigh again as you remember how nice it was to tan everywhere. Picture yourself wandering around some Chinese streets with your shirt off as you soak in the rays and get a tan.
# | 偵 | Spy | てい | Leader + Toe + Shellfish | Your leader sticks his toe into a shellfish. You ask him why and he says he wants to spy on it. There’s a hidden camera on his toe and the leader wants to have plenty of secret spy footage to review later. You and the leader review the spy footage and find a single tater (てい) tot hidden within the shellfish. Together you uncover a huge smuggling ring. Clams, oysters, mussels, you name it! Shellfish of all kinds are using their bodies to sneak tater tots to the undersea world. If it wasn't for your toe spy network, these egregious tater tot crimes would have never reached the light of day.
# | 驚 | Surprised | きょう ; おどろ | Poem + Winter + Horse | If you can write an interesting poem about winter while riding on a horse, I’ll be pretty surprised. It’s hard enough to write a poem as it is, let alone an interesting one. And then you’re riding on a horse and the poem has to be about winter? Heck, I’d be surprised if you didn’t fall off the horse and injure yourself. Imagine trying to write a poem while riding a horse. It’d be really hard to do. I bet you’d be surprised if you managed to do it as well. You might also be surprised to learn that you are to ride this horse all across きょうと. That gives you a time limit. You have until you traverse きょうと to write this poem about winter. Imagine riding through きょうと on a horse. As if that wasn’t difficult enough for poem writing, now you have all the sights and sounds of きょうと to distract you as well.
# | 掃 | Sweep | そう ; は | Fingers + Wolverine + Forehead + Towel | Wolverine ties a towel around his forehead and takes out his fingers instead of his claws so he can sweep the floor clean. When Wolverine fights, his claws are out and he makes a big ol' mess. But once the fighting is done, it's time to get to work and sweep the mess up. Picture Wolverine, hair held back with a towel, claws retracted, sweeping up a bar that he just had a big fight in. He's sweeping up broken bottles and broken chairs and broken evil x-men. Wolverine knows that sweeping is good for the soul (そう). Plus, if you don't help clean up after you defeat bad guys, you're just as bad as them. Sweeping up the mess cleans your soul of any guilt too! Sweeping is good for the soul. Sweeping is good for the soul. Sweeping is like chicken soup for the soul.
# | 菜 | Vegetable | さい ; な | Flowers + Cleat + Tree | You want some flowers so you take your cleat to the side of a tree hoping they'll fall down, but you get a vegetable instead. What? You kick the tree again and another, different vegetable falls out. Now you have two vegetables and no flowers. Do vegetables even grow on trees? You feed these vegetables (that you didn't even want) to your cyborg (さい). It only needs a little though, since its stomach is so thin, so you just make it hold the rest. Picture your cyborg nibbling on the vegetables you cleat-kicked out of this tree. You give all of the things you don't like to your cyborg nowadays. Which is probably why there are so many weird things all over it...
# | 脈 | Vein | みゃく | Moon + Cliff + Tofu | Under the moon while you sit on a cliff, you inject a syringe of tofu right into your vein. Ahh, tofu. You're addicted to it. You sneak out to the cliff at night to get your tofu fix, injecting it straight into your vein. Feel the tofu running through your veins. Feel the tofu goodness spreading all over your body. It's so intense you can even taste a little tofu in your mouth. Eventually, your friends and family find you at the cliff, tripping on tofu. Each and every vein on your body is engorged, pulsating with the effects of tofu. Your friends try and take you home. "You cyan't myake (みゃく) me!" you slur, suffering from the effects of the tofu. "None of you cyan myake me go home! You cyan’t myake me! Nyah!" Say this out loud, it'll help you remember. Really focus on the "myake" be sure to say it like you're all bugged out from tofu overdose.
# | 徳 | Virtue | とく | Loiter + Cross + Net + Heart | You're loitering, staring down at the cross that got caught in the net of your heart, because it's trying to teach you to act with virtue. People who keep the cross in their hearts are supposed to be full of virtue, always doing the right thing, always helping others. But you aren't sure if you want to be virtuous, it's a lot of responsibility. So you look down at this symbolic cross and loiter instead of making a decision. As you try to decide if you want to live a life of virtue the ghost of Tokugawa (とく) Ieyasu appears before you. He points to your heart and the cross, then points to his own and you see a glowing cross in his own. I don't know about you, but I'm pretty sure Tokugawa Ieyasu is telling you to choose a life of virtue.
# | 倉 | Warehouse | そう ; くら | Warehouse | The warehouse radical and the warehouse kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! You have a warehouse to store all of your souls (そう). When people or animals you know pass away, you take their souls and store them in your dry warehouse for safekeeping. It's a public service, really. Imagine if you kept a bunch of souls in a warehouse. This way they can't haunt anyone. And they can't get lost out in the spirit world. The warehouse is best for them.
# | 酸 | Acid | さん ; す | Alcohol + Spider | Mix spiders into alcohol to make acid. Spiders have a little bit in them already, but if you really want to make it potent, smash them in some whiskey to make a deadly acid that will rip through anything. Imagine crushing up some spiders into alcohol. Watch it turn green. It's going to eat through the beaker! Quick, do something! You're trying to find a container for this acid when Santa-san (さん) bursts through your wall. He frowns down at you. You're on the naughty list now. You killed spiders AND made dangerous acid? Ooooh you're in trouble. It’s Christmas morning. Instead of gifts, Santa-san just throws a piece of charcoal at your face. Feel the charcoal smash into your face and explode into acid, burning you. Santa-san runs away laughing. Ho ho ho!
# | 賛 | Agree | さん | Husband + Shellfish | A husband and his husband find a shellfish and agree to share it. Picture the husbands pulling a different side of the shellfish, it pops in two, and they each get a shell. They smile and high five. Since the husbands were able to agree, Santa-san (さん) believes they’re both good husbands and belong on the good list. Therefore, Santa-san gives them each lots and lots of shellfish for Christmas. Imagine Santa-san flying over the husbands in his sleigh, raining shellfish down upon them from the sky. It warms the heart, wouldn’t you agree?
# | 祖 | Ancestor | そ | Spirit + Top Hat | You come across a spirit wearing a top hat and it claims to be your ancestor. Well of course, if you remember correctly, all of your ancestors wore top hats when they were alive. This spirit must be your long lost, great great... uh... somebody. Imagine coming across your long dead top hatted ancestor in spirit form. What would you do? What would you say? You ask your ancestor what it wants and it points to the soap (そ) by the sink. Soap? It nods at you. I guess your ancestor is here to see the wonders of soap. Your ancestor didn't come here to see you, it just wanted to learn about soap. Something that they didn't have back when it was alive. That's actually kinda sad... and stinky. Your ancestor needs to use this soap, if anything.
# | 銭 | Coin | せん ; ぜに | Gold + Bar | To use your gold at the bar you need to turn it into a coin. Well, more than one coin, probably. But you know for sure that you can make at least one coin out of the gold you have. Imagine yourself strenuously pushing a lever to flatten your gold and punch a coin out it. You sweat as you hurry to make enough coins so you can go to the bar before it closes. You use the coin to pay a centaur (せん) at the bar. The centaur is the bartender and he makes special drinks for those who pay in gold coins. Good for you! Imagine handing this centaur bartender your gold coins. Hear him thank you in his booming voice and make you a mysterious gold-colored drink. Look in wonder at how the centaur has managed to fit in the narrow space behind the bar counter.
# | 衛 | Defense | えい | Go + Korea | If you want to go to Korea you'll need a good defense. Things in Korea haven't been on the safest side lately, so make sure you have some ways to defend yourself before you go. You need a good defense to go to Korea, so you fill your pockets with acorns (えい). When you get to Korea you plant them all around yourself. In no time you'll have a strong tree defense, keeping you safe. Okay, so maybe this defense strategy will take a while, but you aren't rich and acorns are on the ground for free. Don't judge!
# | 机 | Desk | つくえ ; き | Tree + Table | A tree combines with a table to make a desk. When you think about it, a desk is just a table with more stuff. To make this more stuff, like drawers and such, you need more wood, and wood comes from trees. Add materials from the tree to the table and you have a desk. Chop this tree into pieces to transform this table into a desk. Hear the sounds of construction in your head as you make this desk with your bare hands. When you finish the desk you turn to your friend and say, “It’s cool, eh (つくえ)?” Your friend looks at you and says, “S’coo’ eh? What?” “This desk, it’s cool. It’s cool, eh?” “Aw, yeah man. S’coo’ eh.” Another way to remember this reading is to think about where you find lots of desks. That's right, in a school (つくえ). Just imagine someone slurring “It’s cool, eh?” While you think about how cool this desk really is. Run your hands over the finished project as you say it.
# | 汚 | Dirty | お ; よご, きたな, けが | Tsunami + Two + Prison | A tsunami hit not one, but TWO prisons, making them extremely dirty. Imagine observing the two prisons being hit by a giant wave of muddy water, making them completely dirty. How disgusting! What's the most dirty are the prisons' obi (お) collections. You can hear the prisoners crying, "Oh, not the obi. Our obi are all dirty, oh no!" The obi were the only nice thing the prisoners had left, and now they're all dirty. Even as you leave the prisons, you can still hear their echoing cries of "Oh, not our obi!"
# | 飼 | Domesticate | か ; し | Eat + Director | You eat part of a director to domesticate him. This director has been going around kicking cameramen and punching actors and it’s really ruining his reputation. You need to domesticate him. The only way to do this is to shock him into submission. His ego is so big from two blockbusters that you have to eat part of him to get him to calm down. Which part of the director did you choose to eat in order to domesticate him? Think about eating that part of the director and imagine its taste in your mouth as you chew. Eww. While you did succeed in your attempt to domesticate the director, he is now bleeding profusely from the bite wound. All over the script! You gotta get your car (か) and drive him to the hospital like right away. Get to the car! Hurry! You’re proud that you managed to domesticate the director, but now you feel kind of bad for having injured him. Okay, you really just feel bad because he’s probably going to sue you and he definitely has a lot of money. Oh, and he’s bleeding all over your car.
# | 複 | Duplicate | ふく | Spirit + Black Hole | Put a spirit in a black hole and a duplicate comes out. The duplicate looks exactly like the original spirit that went in. How strange. Examine the duplicate spirit. Same ghosty body. Same ghosty glow. A perfect copy. Suddenly the duplicate spirit starts yelling, "Why did you throw me into that black hole?! F*** (ふく) you!" You feel pretty bad now. The duplicate spirit seems to have decided to haunt you, and it's muttering "F*** you, f*** you," over and over in your ear.
# | 染 | Dye | せん ; しみ, そ, し | Tsunami + Nine + Tree | A tsunami runs into nine trees and produces a dye the color of the forest. The tsunami water mixes with each tree, nine of them actually, and the resulting liquid is a forest green dye. Imagine this happening in front of you. See the tsunami turn from the color of water to the color of a forest. The dye washes over you and now you’re forest green as well. The dye continues to pass through the forest and hits a group of centaurs (せん). Now each centaur is dyed with the forest green dye. They don’t look happy. Hear each centaur shouting about how he hates that dye for changing his color. They look kind of funny, so you laugh at them a bit, but not too loud – they might hear you and get even more angry.
# | 卵 | Egg | たまご ; らん | Pool | Two pools, both altered and not quite like a pool you’ve seen before are put together and flipped around – this is an egg. One pool is the egg white, the other pool is the egg yolk. They’re different, but similar. Separate the two pools from one another. Now the pools look like the kanji. The kanji is one white pool and one yellow pool. Neat, huh? You remember Tamagotchi (たまご), right? Well, Tamagotchi is an egg, and the toy looks like an egg, so it’s pretty easy to remember that tamago means egg. Just think Tamagotchi whenever you see this kanji. Tamagotchi = tamago = egg. Easy!
# | 永 | Eternity | えい | Eternity | The eternity radical and the eternity kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! How long is an eternity? Just look at this little acorn (えい) and ask. The acorn starts small but it grows into a huge tree and can live for all eternity by dropping more acorns to create more trees. Its acorn line will live on forever! It's the miracle of eternal life!
# | 績 | Exploits | せき | Thread + Blame | Taking a piece of thread you blame the exploits of your past on poor judgment. You tie this thread around your finger to remind you of all the exploits you accomplished in your day. Most of them weren’t actually on purpose, so you blame them on poor judgment and accident. Think up what exploits you accomplished. What sort of things might you have done, but not quite on purpose? Think about how it feels to be exalted for such exploits that were but mere accidents. One of your exploits was when you got dressed in the dark and were wearing funny clothes and everyone thought that it was sexy (せき). The newspapers and fashion agencies couldn’t get enough of your sexy style. Imagine setting this sexy fashion trend on accident. Imagine what you were wearing when you got dressed in the dark. Probably a pretty strange, mismatched outfit.
# | 眼 | Eyeball | がん ; め | Eye + Root | The eye's root is the eyeball. Go ahead and feel your eyeballs moving around in your head. Your eyes aren't just the part on the surface, they're the whole balls in there, attached at the root. You know who has some pretty good eyeballs? Gandhi (がん). Gandhi used his eyes to see the oppression around him and decided to do something about it. But it's all thanks to his eyeballs. Look at Gandhi’s eyeball with your eyeball. It's pretty remarkable.
# | 液 | Fluid, Liquid | えき | Tsunami + Night | A tsunami that hits at night leaves even more fluid than normal. It's dark at night, so the sun isn't there to help evaporate all that tsunami liquid. Picture the dark fluids from the tsunami flowing by your window at night. You look out and the liquid is shining in the moonlight. It looks like an entire sea is out there! This fluid stays in the 駅 (えき) longer than anywhere else. All of those tsunami liquids pour deep inside the 駅 late at night and the sun still can't reach them to help evaporate them during the day. It's a real *night*mare. Picture the 駅 filled to the brim with fluids and liquids. Maybe if you swim, you'll be able to catch your train.
# | 採 | Gather | さい ; と | Fingers + Cleat + Tree | Take your fingers and dig the tree bits out of this cleat to gather it into evidence. Gather it in a pile or a bag, just make sure it's all in one place so you can take a closer look later. Picture your fingers really getting in there to gather the tree pieces from out of this cleat. Some of the tree bits are stabbing under your fingernails, but you have to keep gathering them, don't stop now! You gather them all together and realize there are cyborg (さい) parts mixed in with the tree bits. Uh oh, it's as you feared. Your cyborg definitely got into trouble somewhere around here and you walked all over it with your cleats. Gather all of these cyborg bits so you can find it and reattach them later.
# | 志 | Intention, Ambition | し ; こころざし | Samurai + Heart | If you look inside a samurai's heart, you'll discover their true intentions and ambitions. If you're facing down a samurai, it's pretty important for you to be able to understand their intentions. Not all samurai are good, you know. You try to read the intentions of the samurai in front of you and they're dark, evil, scary. Oh no! These are the intentions of the sheep (し) samurai! The sheep samurai only has violent intentions for other samurai and sheep. Its heart is dark and surprisingly easy to read.
# | 興 | Interest | きょう, こう | Comb + Same + Ground + Fins | There’s a comb and what looks like the same comb, and you found them on the ground next to some fins you showed interest in. At first, the shiny fins on the ground caught your interest, but once you got closer to the fins you also noticed a pair of combs that are interesting too. Pick up these fins and the two combs. Feel their weight in each hand as you examine them with interest. Smell the fish smell and feel the teeth on the combs. Since the combs interest you more than the fins, you examine the combs more closely. Taking interest in where they were made, you discover they were made in きょうと. Dang, きょうと sure does make some nice combs. You've always had an interest in きょうと, so it makes sense that you'd be interested in things from きょうと too.
# | 込 | Into, Included | こ | Scooter + Enter | If you get on your scooter and enter somewhere, you’re going into that place. Really focus on going "into" wherever this is. Into the place you go. Right into it. Once you’ve gone into this place, what do you see? Your 子 (こ)! How did your 子 get into here? Your 子 really gets into everywhere. They get into all kinds of places, and they get into all kinds of trouble!
# | 恩 | Kindness | おん | Mouth + Big + Heart | If you have a big mouth but a good heart, people will recognize your kindness. Even if you blabber on with your big mouth, as long as everyone knows that your heart is filled with kindness, they will love and accept you. Share your kindness with the world. Use your big mouth to let people know what you’re doing. “I’M TAKING OUT THE TRASH AND NOBODY EVEN ASKED ME!” Y’know, that sort of thing. Go ahead and say that out loud a few times. To further show your kindness, you chop up some onions (おん) for a friend who always cries when they chop onions. The onions make you cry too, so it’s a nice act of kindness that you’re toughing it out for your pal. Imagine chopping up these onions. Smell the onion smell in the air as your eyes begin to sting from the onions. Your friend had better appreciate this kindness.
# | 久 | Long Time | きゅう, く ; ひさ | Slide + Enter | If you use a slide to enter a building, you'll be sliding for a long time. Imagine a never-ending slide that goes deep down inside a building. You can't see anything in the dark around you, you just plunge down and slide forever. And forever is a long time, my friend. You slide for such a long time that you get hungry. Luckily, once in a while a cucumber (きゅう) comes tumbling down the slide next to you. Cucumbers are tasty, but not when you've been eating them for a long time.
# | 党 | Party, Group | とう | Viking + Older Brother | A Viking and his older brother join a party. They can raid and pillage better in a group like this, so it makes sense that the Viking and his older brother would join a group with other Vikings. Look at this big group that contains the Viking and his older brother. Hear them shouting as a group and imagine their Viking battle cry. This party has decided to raid とうきょう. It’s a large undertaking, but they have a large group of Vikings on the job. とうきょう doesn’t stand a chance. Imagine this group of Vikings rampaging through とうきょう. See all the Japanese people running away and screaming as the group of Vikings comes busting in, swinging their axes and shouting loudly.
# | 序 | Preface | じょ ; つい, ついで | Canopy + Beforehand | If the canopy comes beforehand, it's a preface for the rest of the canopy. Although not necessarily a book preface, you can imagine a book made out of canvas pages. The canvas pages that came beforehand (i.e. in the beginning, before the book started) is the preface. You read the preface. It just goes on and on and on about Jo-Anne (じょ), a short lady the author loves very much. Actually imagine reading through the preface of your favorite book. Except, there's a preface that just goes into great detail about Jo-Anne and doesn't seem related at all to the book.
# | 雑 | Random, Miscellaneous | ざつ, ぞう | Nine + Tree + Turkey | You count nine of them in the tree, each turkey holding something random or miscellaneous. There are nine turkeys in the tree and they’re all holding random, miscellaneous things. How odd. Look at the turkeys in the tree. There are nine of them and they are all gobbling up a storm. Hear them gobble as you imagine what random, miscellaneous things they are holding. As if things couldn’t get any more random, Zazu (ざつ) from the Lion King flies into the tree and starts asking the nine turkeys miscellaneous trivia. Zazu always did have a thirst for knowledge, but this is kind of strange. Look at Zazu asking the turkeys random questions about miscellaneous trivia. You’ve seen the Lion King, right? Zazu should be pretty easy to visualize here.
# | 桜 | Sakura, Cherry Tree, Cherry Blossom | さくら ; おう, よう | Tree + Grass + Woman | Under a tree sitting on the grass is a woman who loves sakura, or cherry tree, if you’re an English speaker. This woman really likes to just chill out in the grass under these cherry trees and watch the sakura blossoms. It’s very pretty. Imagine yourself sitting under the tree in the grass with the woman. Smell the cherries and see the sakura blossoms falling down all around you. How whimsical. How do you say cherry tree in Japanese? Sakura (さくら). Sakura is Japanese for cherry tree. I’m sure you’ve probably heard this before, so it shouldn’t be too hard to remember. Sakura means cherry tree and sakura is the way to pronounce this kanji. Easy!
# | 密 | Secrecy | みつ ; ひそ | Roof + Certain + Mountain | Standing on your roof, you're certain that the nearby mountain is shrouded in secrecy. But you can't do much about it, stuck on your roof as you are. So much secrecy, but so far away. Really feel the frustration of wanting to uncover all the secrecy around this mountain but being stuck on your stupid roof. This secrecy is so secret that the people who know about it wear magical mitts (みつ) of secrecy that make it so we can't tell anyone, no matter what. You can imagine trying to break one of the mitts-wearing members of this group, but they can't tell you anything because of their magical mitts.
# | 秘 | Secret | ひ ; ひ | Grain + Certain | A grain is certain to keep a secret. Imagine telling a piece of grain your deepest, darkest secret. If someone finds out your secret (not from the grain though, it will certainly keep it) then your entire face will fill with heat (ひ). This works both ways too. If someone tells you a secret, that same heat fills you up. Now whether this heat is from embarrassment or the rush of getting to be part of a secret is up to you to figure out.
# | 厳 | Strict | げん, ごん ; きび, おごそ | Grass + Cliff + Elf + Winter | If you see a grassy cliff with an elf under it in winter, it's because their parents are so strict. When elf kids misbehave they're supposed to go stand under grassy cliffs to think about what they've done. Only really, really strict parents would make their kids do that in the middle of winter! It's cold! One of the strict parents of this elf kid is... Genji (げん)?! Looks like he had another illegitimate kid... this time with an elf. Oh Genji, if only you were as strict about using protection as you were on your elf child.
# | 捨 | Throw Away | す ; しゃ | Fingers + Cottage | When you're at your cottage the only thing you do with your fingers is throw away things. The cottage is for vacation. And vacation means being as lazy as possible. But you certainly don't want to live in filth, so you have to throw away your trash at least. Imagine sitting in your cottage. You throw away a banana peel. You throw away some used suntan lotion. You throw away all your cares in the world. The number one thing you throw away while in your cottage is your suit (す). Suits just don't fit the cottage life vibe, man. Just throw away all your suits when you want to relax. Don't worry about needing one some day, throw it awaaaay!
# | 訳 | Translation, Reason | やく ; わけ | Say + Shrimp | They say a shrimp who is bad with translation has no reason to live. Most shrimp make a living with their translation skills. They are the translators of the ocean. If they don’t know how to say something in all the languages of the sea, they have no reason to live. They might as well be dead. Imagine this one shrimp who is bad at translation. He’s trying to find a reason to live, but he’s having trouble. Look at him all alone, being shunned by the other shrimp. The translation this shrimp failed to make was for the word “yak” (やく). The shrimp found no reason to translate yak because there are no yak in the sea and then the shrimp just started questioning everything in his life and fell apart. The translation of the word yak was the reason this shrimp fell into despair and gave up the translation profession. Now everyone hates him. See this poor shrimp being harassed by others while they shout at him, “Yak! Yak! Yak!”
# | 欲 | Want | よく ; ほ | Valley + Lack | In the valley you feel a lack of want. You want for nothing in this valley. It is the valley of plenty. Think of how much you want to be in this valley. They have everything in there. You lack nothing. You want for nothing. Man, you wanna be in that valley so badly. Once you get to the valley, you want some protein. Egg yolk (よく) falls from the sky! It’s a miracle! You wanted protein, and egg yolk was presented. It falls right into your open mouth. This was the yolk you wanted. Feel it slosh into your mouth from the sky. Taste the yolk on your tongue before swallowing it. Mmm, egg yolk.
# | 暖 | Warm | だん ; あたた | Sun + Football | You're in the sun playing football and you get very warm. Feel how warm the sun is, as you try to throw and catch the football. It's warm like this because it's dawn (だん). That's when the sun comes up. Dang, you knew you should have played night football so it wouldn't get so warm. Now the dawn sun is making you uncomfortable under all those layers of football protection.
# | 迎 | Welcome | げい ; むか | Scooter + Cat Pirate | In its scooter, a cat pirate scoots up to welcome you! "Nya! Welcome to my ship, grab a scooter and scoot on up here, we're about to start the welcome ceremonya!" The cat pirate then launches into a speech about how they welcome all kinds of people. Especially gay (げい) people. He puts a certain emphasis on gay, so you figure that the cat pirate either thinks you're gay or wants you to be. You're really happy this cat pirate welcomes gay people aboard. Whether that's because you're gay or just because you're a baseline decent human being is up to you. Also if you aren't the kind of person who would welcome gay people onto your cat pirate ship, you should just leave nyaow.
# | 傷 | Wound | しょう ; きず, いた | Leader + Gun + Easy | If a leader has a gun it's easy to wound people. When you have a gun and a lot of responsibility it's easy to get carried away and mess up, wounding the people you were supposed to be protecting. You can even wound yourself. Picture how easy it would be for the leader of your country to wound someone if they had a gun. Scary, right? Which leader wounded the Japanese people? The Shougun (しょう). The Shougun is a military leader. The Shougun even has gun in the name. And they wounded hundreds of thousands of samurai and soldiers. Picture the Shougun you've slowly grown to know over the last thirty-ish levels. But he's holding a gun wounding everyone around him. He's screaming and shooting and wounding everyone in sight. Even his mom, even his dog, even his farmers.
# | 灰 | Ash, Ashes | はい ; かい | Cliff + Fire | On a cliff, a fire burns to ashes. The ashes then blow off the cliff, and follow the wind wherever it may go. See the light from the fire as the ashes fly off the cliff. The wind carries some of the ashes over to you. Feel the ashes as they strike your face and wipe the black ash with your hands. The ashes inspire you to write a haiku (はい). Using the ashes you write a haiku on a rock for everyone to enjoy. Ashes on my face. Falling from the cliff of fire. Gives my life meaning. Or just come up with your own haiku. Whatever works for you.
# | 装 | Attire | そう, しょう ; よそお | Icicle + Samurai + Clothes | If you see icicles hanging off of a samurai's clothes, don't worry, those are just part of his winter attire. Samurai have to travel and fight in all sorts of conditions, so it only makes sense that they have attire for every season. Picture a samurai in his winter attire. His helmet is white and fuzzy and he has decorative icicles hanging down off of his armor. Attire like this is important because it reflects your soul (そう). The samurai is wearing clothing with icicles because that's how his heart feels too: frozen over because he has to fight in this horrible winter weather. Picture the kind of attire you'd wear as a samurai to reflect your soul. Mine would be bright pink and covered in horses and bananas and daisies to show that I have a happy, kind soul and that I don't want to be killed by anyone else.
# | 著 | Author | ちょ ; いちじる, あらわ | Flowers + Someone | If someone is holding flowers, they're probably an author. Authors really love flowers, because they help them think of flowery language they can use to sound smart in their books. Imagine a time when a book you were reading used flowery language and you couldn't understand. Imagine the annoyance with the author for using words that are hard to understand. Unfortunately, the author is allergic to flowers. They are only allergic to touching them though, so the author is holding the flowers with a pair of chopsticks (ちょ), really close to their face. Using the chopsticks, they can still use the flowers to think of fancy, author-ly words without touching them. Picture the author trying to use chopsticks to move around a little flower. It looks like they're having a hard time, but people will do anything to be a great author, I suppose.
# | 裏 | Backside, Underside, Reverse | うら ; り | Lid + Village + Kick | There's a lid on your village, so you kick it over on its backside to see what's on its underside. You've been curious about what's on the lid (and your village's) backside for years, and you finally can't take it anymore so you kick the lid as hard as you can! It turns out your village's own backside is covered in uranium (うら). Eureka! You're all gonna be rich! Wait, isn't uranium bad for people? This explains why all of the villagers' backsides are covered in weird glowing, green lumps.
# | 股 | Crotch, Groin, Fork | こ ; また, もも | Moon + Weapon | You keep your moon weapon in your crotch. Where else would you keep it? Your moon weapon is a moon that you keep in your crotch. We'll let you imagine how this one works... Your crotch has a moon weapon, and it's served you well, so you hope that if you have a 子  (こ) one day, they'll have one too. Your mother had a moon weapon, and her father before her. It's been in the family for generations, and you hope to pass it on to your 子 as well.
# | 垂 | Dangle, Drip | すい ; た | Car | This car is all weird because it looks like the side is going to dangle and drip off or something. The front bumper of the car is dangling off and the sides of the car look like they could drip off at any moment. Compare this kanji to the car kanji, 車. See how the sides and top are different? Use that to remember that this car looks like it’s falling apart. See the parts dangle, and hear the drip of car fluids falling out. This car is a wreck. You see the parts as they dangle off the car and you get an idea. You could probably swing (すい) on these dangling parts. The parts can probably take some weight still before they drip off the car, so you might as well swing around on them while you still can. Imagine yourself swinging off these dangling car parts. Hear the car creak and groan as you swing around on it, causing more fluid to drip out of the car.
# | 異 | Differ | い ; こと | Rice Paddy + Together | Put a rice paddy together with other paddies and you'll see how much they differ. When you're driving or taking a train through the countryside it may seem like all of those rice paddies blurring together are all the same, but they can differ quite a bit! Try to picture how each rice paddy differs from the next. Can you think of any differences in the ones you've seen? To see how rice paddies differ, you need an eagle's (い) eye view. It can be hard to see from the ground, so soar up into the sky like an eagle and look down at the rice paddies together. Aha! As an eagle you can easily see that all of the rice paddies have differing colors, shapes, and (if you fly low) smells. They differ a lot!
# | 皇 | Emperor | こう, おう | White + King | Social commentary aside, the white king is the king that wears all white. Traditionally, this is someone better than a king. The emperor! See the emperor, garbed all in white. There are other kings, but the emperor's white clothing shows his status above the rest. Who is the emperor? It is こういち. こういち the emperor stands over his subjects. How did こういち become emperor?! His first decree as emperor is that everybody must learn kanji now. Note: from now on, Emperor こういち will be a recurring character for the reading mnemonic of こう.
# | 拡 | Extend | かく ; ひろ | Fingers + Wide | To make your fingers wide you extend them. Extend your fingers right now and see how wide you can make them. As you extend your fingers a cock (かく) comes running by and runs straight into them. Bu-COCK! You poked the cock right in the eye with your extended fingers. Maybe you shouldn't be doing that in public. Innocent cocks could get hurt.
# | 屁 | Flatulence, Gas | へ ; ひ | Flag + Compare | Use a flag to compare your flatulence. How do you compare your flatulence? I recommend a flag. You can see which fart is strongest by seeing how much the flag flutters. How do you read flatulence? Heh(へ)...heh..heh..heheheh. You can't NOT laugh at the word flatulence. Note that some dictionaries incorrectly list おなら as a reading for this kanji. While おなら also means "flatulence" (as in "fart"), you’ll only ever encounter this reading in hiragana, as the kanji can only be read as へ. Picture yourself unable to stop snickering over the word "flatulence", like a little schoolchild. Heh… heh…
# | 暮 | Livelihood | ぼ ; く | Greenhouse + Sun | A greenhouse is already really good when it comes to a plant's livelihood. But add the sun into that equation and you have something really great for the plants. Their livelihood will be awesome, now! Just feel happy that your plants have such a nice livelihood now that the sun is out. They look so healthy and fresh! From out of nowhere, Bobo (ぼ) the notorious clown thief starts picking the plants, ending their livelihood. Bobo needs the flowers for his clown acts, so he uses the livelihood of the flowers to support his own livelihood. Look at Bobo do what he needs to do to maintain his own livelihood. Hear the flowers screaming as they are plucked from their homes.
# | 忠 | Loyalty | ちゅう | Middle + Heart | Those that are in the middle of your heart are the ones you have the most loyalty towards. The middle of your heart is the most sacred, special place for people, so it makes sense that those you keep in the middle of your heart are those you are most loyal to. Who do you feel the most loyalty towards? Imagine them in the middle of your heart. Feel them in your chest. Imagine them, literally inside the middle of your heart. You pictured Chewbacca (ちゅう), didn’t you? No? Well you should have. Chewbacca deserves everyone’s loyalty. Chewbacca is super loyal to you, so he deserves your loyalty back. Chewbacca is very loyal. Focus on your loyalty to Chewbacca. Picture him right in the middle of your heart and hear his Chewbacca yell. Also keep in mind that this kanji shares its reading with 中 which is also included in this kanji.
# | 肺 | Lung | はい | Moon + City | There is a moon and a city inside your lung. Inside of your lung there is a city and above that city lies a moon. It’s a pretty sight, but also very strange. Moons and cities don’t usually reside inside lungs. Imagine having a moon and a city inside your lung. Feel their presence as you breathe in and breathe out. Also, 月 often refers to internal organs as well, so remember that when you see this kanji. Having a moon and city inside your lung inspires you to write a haiku (はい). Perhaps the city and moon are just metaphorical. Either way, a haiku is the best way to go about things here. The city and moon; Inside my lung, forgotten. Where is the answer? Or just think of your own haiku. Be creative!
# | 誌 | Magazine | し | Say + Samurai + Heart | To say what's in a samurai's heart you start a magazine. You go around writing about and interviewing all the samurai so you can share what they say to everyone who wants to read! Why hadn't anyone thought of making a samurai magazine before?! Unfortunately, your magazine helps the sheep (し) samurai find other samurai... and kill them. None of the samurai want to share their feelings with your magazine anymore, oh no! The sheep samurai is ruining your magazine! Maybe you should start a new magazine called, "All the places the sheep samurai will be, so stay away!" to make up for all the damage you've caused.
# | 操 | Manipulate, Chastity | そう ; あやつ, みさお | Fingers + Syrup | If someone has their fingers in your syrup, it's just another way of saying they manipulated you. Cause only slimy people manipulate other people, so their fingers are slimy and sticky because they're covered in your syrup from mucking up your life. This also has another meaning: chastity. Just imagine if someone wanted you to keep your chastity and they called s.e.x. when someone "puts their fingers in your syrup." That would be pretty effective, right? Cause it's like, super gross. "Ah golly gee wiz, he sure got his fingers all up in my syrup again, dagnabbit." You know, this saying we say all the time when someone manipulates us into doing something. If you want to manipulate someone else it's going to have a permanent effect on your soul (そう). Being manipulative isn't cool. And your soul will suffer forever for it. What happens to your soul, you ask? It gets covered in syrup. That's probably where the syrup fingers phrase came from in the first place.
# | 筋 | Muscle, Tendon | きん ; すじ | Bamboo + Moon + Power | This bamboo absorbed the moon's power, and you want that power in your body, so you surgically insert them into your body to replace your muscles and tendons. Picture your new bamboo muscles glowing under your skin with the moon's power. You flex and feel the power coursing through you! Your special muscles and tendons have become famous and the King (きん) of England has requested that you appear in his court! It looks like he wants you to teach his barber surgeons how you got your new muscles. Imagine standing before the King, explaining in detail how you cut yourself open and replaced your weak human meat with the special muscles you have now. He's staring intently at you, but more so at your shining body than your mouth as you talk.
# | 否 | No | ひ ; いな, いや | Not + Mouth | The Not Mouth says “no”. What else would you expect from something named the “Not Mouth”? The Not Mouth will always say “no”, regardless of the question. Imagine encountering this Not Mouth. Ask it a question. It answers, “No”. Imagine doing this over and over until you believe that the Not Mouth always says “no”. You ask the Not Mouth if it is afraid of heat (ひ). The Not Mouth says, “no”. So you set the Not Mouth on fire. The Not Mouth then screams, “NONONONONONONONONONOOOOOO~!” Looks like someone can’t handle the heat. Listen as the Not Mouth continues to scream in bloodcurdling agony. Hear the flames flicker as they lick across the Not Mouth’s being. Seems as though the heat was too much for the Not Mouth.
# | 盛 | Pile, Prosperous, Heap | せい, じょう ; も, さか | Become + Plate | If you become a plate, I will pile food up upon you. With such a huge pile, everyone will think you're prosperous. If you have piles of something, you're prosperous. If you become a plate, that's the best thing that can happen to you. You're so prosperous you use your saber (せい) to cut the food pile and shove the bits into your plate mouth. In fact, your entire family is using your special saber to cut and eat off of you. A normal knife wouldn't be able to get through all this food! You know a family is seriously prosperous when they don't use forks, they use a magical saber to cut their food. Wowee wow wow.
# | 宣 | Proclaim | せん ; のたま | Roof + Ground + Dawn | Someone climbs onto the roof from the ground when dawn comes to proclaim that a new day has begun! They proclaim this at the top of their lungs! Picture a shadowy shape on top of the roof, proclaiming to the entire town that the new day is here! It's come! And it's also time to get up. The thing that climbs up on the roof to proclaim that the new day is here is a centaur (せん). Ohoho, did you think I was going to say it was a rooster? Wrong! Centaurs are taller than humans and roosters, so when they climb onto the roof with their horse legs they can see dawn starting before anyone else. Picture that shadow on the roof, proclaiming it's a new day, but this time make sure you picture the outline of this centaur. He has a human top half and a horse bottom half. And he's yelling down at you, "HEY THE SUN IS UP IT'S DAWN GET OUT OF BED!"
# | 賃 | Rent | ちん | Leader + King + Shellfish | The leader who is king of every shellfish sets the rent for everyone. If you rent a home in King Shellfish's kingdom, the rent will be set by the great shellfish leader himself. King Shellfish loves when people rent from him. Imagine him rolling in all of the rent money (shellfish) he collected from all the people who rent from him. Hear his shell clattering as he frolics on all the dead shells from the shellfish. If you don't have enough shellfish to pay your rent, King Shellfish will punch you in the chin (ちん). Feel your entire body shaking, but especially your chin, as you tell him you're two shellfish short on rent this month. The last thing you see is his big fist coming right for your chin.
# | 敬 | Respect | けい ; うやま | Poem + Winter | Writing a poem about winter is the only way to get respect from other poets. Even better, write a poem about winter IN winter. Then they'll really respect you. Once you have their respect you get cake (けい)! The cake has the word RESPECT in fancy, cursive letters. Imagine eating that cake and taste the respect of your poet peers. Mm mm!
# | 尊 | Revered | そん ; とうと, たっと | Horns + Alcohol + Measurement | The horns of the creatures who drink alcohol have a measurement so large that they are revered the world over. The horns are revered both for their size and potency. The horns can be used in medicine, so they are very valuable, those alcoholic monster horns. Look at one of these revered horns. Pick it up and feel its weight. It measures very large. Your arms are getting tired from the weight. The reason you are interested in these revered horns so much is that your son (そん) is sick and you need one of these revered horns to make a medicine for your son. Only with the revered power of the horns will you be able to save your son’s life. Good thing you already have one of these revered horns. Now imagine yourself grinding it up into a powder to mix into a potion for your son to drink. Hear the horn grinding away as you physically break the horn up into millions of tiny pieces.
# | 熟 | Ripen | じゅく ; う | Receive + Circle + Boil | If you receive something edible, arrange it in a circle and boil it. That way, it’ll ripen more quickly. Picture yourself receiving something, arranging it in a circle in the pan, and leaving it to boil. See how quickly that stuff ripens? Now it’s all ripe and yummy. Once everything you received has ripened, you kick back near your jukebox (じゅく) and eat it. The jukebox sets the mood, making the ripened treat feels twice as sweet. Imagine the jukebox playing music to accompany your ripened treat. Ahh, jukebox music and ripened goodies. Can life get any sweeter?
# | 噂 | Rumor, Gossip | うわさ ; そん | Mouth + Horns + Alcohol + Measurement | Your mouth has some hidden horns, and if you have the right alcohol measurement in your body, those horns will come out of your mouth in the form of rumors and gossip. It's really easy for you to let a rumor slip if you've had a certain amount of alcohol. And those rumors have horns, they're dangerous. When you start to tell a rumor or spread gossip, you're a little drunk, so you slur you words. "Ooo I saw (うわさ)..." is how you start every rumor. It's got some southern drawl to it almost (Uuuwahsahw). If someone who looks a little drunk comes up to you and starts with うわさ, there is a 100% chance what follows is gossip.
# | 砂 | Sand | さ, しゃ ; すな | Stone + Few | If you grind a stone down to more than just a few pieces, it will become sand. Stones that get broken up enough will become sand, and you pick up a few grains in your hand. Feel these few grains of sand between your fingertips. Imagine the stones that they originally came from. Nature is crazy. What’s in your hand? A few grains of sand (さ)! Sand, sand, sand! Just remember that stones become sand and if you remember that this kanji means sand you’ll remember how to pronounce it as well.
# | 簡 | Simplicity | かん | Bamboo + Interval | Keeping at a bamboo interval is the definition of simplicity. Just one bamboo wide, over and over. That is simplicity. Simplicity is what Genghis Khan (かん) always demanded. Everything he decided was based on simplicity. Simplicity is how he took over so much of the world. If he didn't stick to simplicity, there's no way he'd have been able to do what he did.
# | 蒸 | Steam | じょう ; む | Flowers + Coral + Boil | If you take the flowers off some coral and boil them, steam comes out. Steam comes out of the coral flowers because they hold a lot of water. They're flowers, but they're coral flowers, so they came from the ocean. Of course there's water in them, and if you boil that water steam will come out. As you watch the steam coming off the coral flowers, someone appears behind you. It’s Joe (じょう), the big farmhand. "Are you steaming coral?" he asks. "Smelled it a mile away. I love steaming me some coral.” It's weird that Joe is so sensitive to the smell of steaming coral. He's lived as a farmhand nowhere near the sea all his life... at least that's what he told you. And now he's in your house breathing in the steam really deeply with his nose practically in the pot.
# | 蔵 | Storehouse | ぞう ; くら | Storehouse | The storehouse radical and the storehouse kanji meanings are the same. If you know the radical, you know the kanji! Your brain is like a storehouse, you know? Hopefully that's where you kept your storehouse knowledge. You have a storehouse. Inside is where you keep all your zombies (ぞう). Be really proud of your storehouse. You've collected a lot of zombies and put them in there, where they'll keep fresh a long time!
# | 糖 | Sugar | とう | Rice + Canopy + Brush + Mouth | Bring rice under a canopy, crush it with your brush, and sweep the white powder in your mouth... it's sugar now! You make sugar by carefully crushing rice to a powder, until it's small enough to brush into your mouth. Taste the sugar in your mouth and feel the breeze waft under the canopy. You're surrounded by rice, but what's in your mouth is definitely sugar now. You learned how to make sugar in とうきょう. You found a special とうきょう sugar sensei and they introduced you to all of the secret methods you know now. As you eat the sugar, you picture とうきょう. The place where you fell in love with these sugar-making techniques.
# | 納 | Supply | のう, なっ ; おさ | Thread + Inside | The thread you have inside is your whole supply. When you're outside sewing and you run out, you just go inside, look through your supply, and pick a new one. Go inside your house or shed, it doesn't matter where, and look happily at your thread supply. You have thread in all sizes, shapes, and especially colors. You have this supply because Nostradamus (のう) had a prediction, saying you would. And that if you didn't keep a good supply of thread inside, you'd run out. Nostradamus says you should have a large supply of everything you use regularly. Thread, water, canned foods. You can't see the future, but he can, and if he's telling you to stock up on your inside supplies I think you should listen.
# | 諸 | Various | しょ ; もろ | Say + Someone | They say someone with various talents is important. Various talents can include speaking various languages so if you are someone who knows various languages you can say things that various peoples will comprehend. You are someone who can say things in various languages. Speak some of these various languages now. You are someone who is good at saying things. Nice job. You’re so good at speaking various languages that you decide to put on a show (しょ). At the show, you say a lot of things in various languages and everyone is impressed. Imagine yourself at this show. The spotlight is on and all eyes are watching. You feel kind of nervous, but you speak the various languages with ease.
# | 窓 | Window | まど ; そう | Hole + Private + Heart | The hole leading to the private heart of your house is the window. Or maybe it's just the window to your soul, and not your house. Like the poetry people say. Imagine someone looking into a hole that shows your private heart. That's a window. A window you probably should have kept closed. Now everyone is looking in. You realize that a ton of people are looking into your window and seeing all your private things. This makes you mad (まど)! What right do they have to know your private thoughts and desires?! Look out your window back at the faces. Try to express how mad you are at them with your face through the glass. Make as many mad faces that you can think of.
# | 豆 | Beans | とう ; まめ | Beans | The beans radical and the beans kanji are exactly the same! *toots* These beans are from とうきょう. Everybody knows とうきょう has the best beans. What?! You didn’t know that? Tokyo’s beans are the best beans! Imagine eating these beans from とうきょう. They’re the best beans you’ve ever had. Even if you don’t like beans, you love とうきょう beans. Mmm… beans, beans, とうきょう beans.
# | 枝 | Branch | えだ ; し | Tree + Branch | A tree branch is exactly what it sounds like: the branch of a tree. Picture a tree branch in your hands. Feel it. Smell it. It smells and feels like a tree. You're smelling and feeling the  branch when, suddenly, it starts screaming at you: "Eh, dad?" (えだ). The branch won't leave you alone. It follows you around screaming "Eh, dad?", thinking you're its long-lost tree branch father. Poor thing. Picture the branch suddenly crying out, "Eh, Dad?" in a squeaky voice. You'd better find its real dad, otherwise this branch is never going to leave you alone.
# | 揮 | Brandish | き | Fingers + Forehead + Car | You stand on the forehead of your car, take your fingers and brandish them in the air! You wave them around for everyone to see. Imagine standing on top of your car, brandishing your fingers in the air, all of the cars stuck behind yours honking angrily. What are you brandishing in your fingers? Your car's key (き)! You want every driver and every car to know that you aren't going to be driving ever again! You brandish the key in the air and then throw it into the woods. No more cars for you! Everyone should follow your example! Brandish your car keys into the air and throw them away!
# | 刻 | Carve | こく ; きざ | Slice + Knife | A slice with a knife is called a carve. You carve meat, you carve wood, all with a slicing motion with a knife. You work up a sweat trying to carve meat and wood all day, so you grab yourself a nice Coke (こく). You like Coke, and it goes well with meat and sawdust. Imagine washing down all your hard carving work with an ice cold Coke.
# | 爪 | Claw, Nail | つめ, つま ; そう | Claw | The claw radical and the claw kanji are exactly the same! Ravishing! Lucky for you, this kanji has already etched its claw marks into your memory! You sink your claws into anything your two 目 (つめ) see, because you're such a fierce predator. If your two 目 can see it, your claws will get to it. Your claws are basically an extension of your two eyes, that's how skilled you are. Imagine your claws darting out, almost automatically, as soon as your two 目 have seen your prey. Imagine catching your dinner that way.
# | 承 | Consent | しょう ; うけたまわ | Child + Two + Water | A child will ask if they want two waters because they need a grown-up's consent. Children aren't allowed to have whatever they want, they need to make sure it's okay and get consent first. Picture the child finishing their first water. They look at a big stack of bottled waters, but they know better than to just take two more, they need consent first. "Excuse me, sir, could I please have two more waters?" the child asks. "Of course my child, you have my consent," comes the voice of the Shougun (しょう). The Shougun is very pleased by this child, because he expects everyone to ask for consent around him. You need to make sure to get express consent from the Shougun before you do most things. Especially if it's something like taking more than you've been given.
# | 咳 | Cough | せき ; がい | Mouth + Slice | Your mouth was sliced open by a terrible cough. You've heard of a hacking cough, right? Well, this is worse. It's a slicing cough, and it's sliced right through your mouth, too. Imagine it flapping around while you cough. Oddly enough, some people find your cough sexy (せき). That slicing cough opened up a nice gravelly, sexy voice. Between coughs, you start noticing all the looks you're getting. You realize your cough is making you really sexy to all the people around you. Cough cough cough.
# | 幕 | Curtain | まく, ばく ; とばり | Greenhouse + Towel | Hang a towel in a greenhouse and it turns into a curtain. Greenhouses are made of windows, it's all glass, there are no walls. So when you put a towel in there it turns into a curtain. It has no choice but to cover a window, after all. Imagine hanging towels over all the windows in the greenhouse. They're really fuzzy, thick curtains now. You're hanging these towel curtains because you need a quiet place to eat a Big Mac (まく). But you're a little ashamed. Big macs aren't really good for you, but this stupid greenhouse has too many windows and everyone can see you stuff your face. So that's where the towel curtains come in. Imagine hiding in a greenhouse blocked off with towel curtains, stuffing your face with big macs. No one can shame you in here. You can eat as many as you want. And hey, you can use the curtains as napkins too.
# | 紅 | Deep Red, Crimson | こう ; べに, くれない | Construction + Thread | In this construction project, they will be using thread to hold everything together. The color of the thread is a deep red, and it gives everything a crimson look. Because thread isn't that strong, you have to use A LOT (to hold things like beams in place). So, the deep red / crimson thread actually stands out a lot in this construction project. You're done, and the whole building is a deep red crimson color (it takes a lot of thread to hold a whole building in place). It's time to show the client, Emperor こういち, the finished product. こういち walks up with a big smile on his face. "I love the color crimson!" he exclaims. "It's the same deep red color as my enemies." Hint: When you see 工 in a kanji it will often take the こう reading.
# | 歓 | Delight | かん | Arrow + Turkey + Lack | An arrow is what this turkey lacks. For a turkey, that is a delight. A turkey that lacks an arrow is a delighted turkey. Delight is what Genghis Khan (かん) felt when he saw his turkey friend, sans an arrow. He loves his turkey friend, and every time he sees it he squeals with delight.
# | 奴 | Dude | ど ; やつ | Woman + Stool | The woman sitting on that stool is actually a dude. Oh oops! You thought he was a woman because of his long hair and the way he was sitting. Maybe you shouldn't be judging people based on their looks! Dude, I can't believe you called that dude a woman. What's wrong with you?! You only found out this dude wasn't a woman when a dog (ど) ran up and the dude stood up. He started rubbing the dog's face saying, "Who's a good boy? Who's a good boy? Not you! Me! I'm the best boy of them all. Because I am a dude, the best of all boys! HAHAHAHA!" Look at the poor dog. He's not a dude and now he doesn't think he's a good boy, all because of this other dude. Was he sitting on the stool this whole time, waiting to make this dog feel bad? I guess you'll never know...
# | 聖 | Holy | せい | Ear + Mouth + King | The ear and the mouth of a king are holy. The king has holy hearing and holy eating abilities. This king is divine. See the holy ear and mouth of this king. They glisten and glitter and people write hymnals about their holy prowess. Imagine a song playing as you witness their holy majesty. This holy king has heard of you and your special saber (せい) that glows with pure, blue light. Specifically, the holy king wants to use it on his food! The holy king heard you turned into a prosperous plate and used the saber to cut your food and now he wants to try it too. As he holds your saber, a holy circle forms around it, making it sparkle and shimmer! Your saber is holy now too!!
# | 推 | Infer | すい ; お | Fingers + Turkey | If a turkey is pointing its fingers at you, you can infer that it wants revenge. This turkey knows you killed his brother for dinner last night, and now he’s going to make you pay. You infer that this turkey is going to take their fingers and wrap them around your neck. Imagine a turkey is pointing at you with its fingers. The gears in your brain begin to slowly turn. From looking at the turkey to its fingers and back to the turkey, you can infer that something bad is probably about to happen to you. You were able to infer the turkey's plan, so now it's your turn. You look around and see the only way out... is to swing (すい) to safety! How did I infer that, dear Watson? Why, isn't it obvious! There are vines here. Turkeys can't fly. So I shall swing my way to freedom! Picture yourself as Sherlock Holmes, you inferred your way to freedom, swinging away on a conveniently-placed vine.
# | 臓 | Internal Organs | ぞう | Moon + Storehouse | Your moon storehouse is another storehouse you own. Remember how your regular storehouse holds zombies (from the kanji 蔵?). Your moon storehouse is on the moon, and it is filled with internal organs. Your moon storehouse has internal organs because 1) you have to keep them far away from the zombies or they'll go berserk, and 2) you think it's funny to see them bounce around in low gravity. Boing, boing, boing, haha look at that internal organ. Where did you get all these internal organs from? You actually harvested them from the zombies (ぞう) from your other storehouse. Basically, you store zombies in your regular storehouse, harvest their organs, then launch them into space where they are put into a storehouse on the moon where the zombies will never be able to find them again.
# | 損 | Loss, Hurt | そん ; そこ | Fingers + Member | Raise your fingers to another member and you'll receive a loss in return. You should never hurt a member of your team, group, or society. It's just wrong. And you'll incur a loss as punishment for your bad deeds. Imagine raising your fingers to slap, hurt, or point angrily at a member of your own team. How dare you! I hope you're ready for some deep, personal loss. Unfortunately for you, payment is in the form of the loss of your son (そん). The loss of any family member is horrible, but this was your son. He was your favorite child. You loved him. But that's the loss you must bear for raising your fingers to a team member. Picture your son. Your future son, maybe even your animal son, if you don't want to have real kids. Now imagine the loss of that son. Nooooo!
# | 磁 | Magnet | じ | Stone + Horns + Ground + Poop | Seeing a stone and some horns on the ground next to a piece of poop and another piece of poop, you try and pick each of them up with a magnet. The magnet fails to pick up either piece of poop. The magnet doesn’t pick up the horns either. But wait! The magnet picks up the stone! Imagine yourself trying to pick each object up off the ground with your magnet. Hear the clink of the stone against metal as the magnet lifts it off the ground. Must be some iron in it or something. You’re pretty excited that you lifted something up with your magnet. Science is cool! But then you hear someone laughing behind you. It’s Jesus (じ)! Jesus was using his magic to levitate the stone all along, it wasn’t your magnet. Darn it Jesus! You’ve fooled me for the last time! Imagine Jesus snickering behind you as the stone falls to the ground once again. Imagine running after Jesus so you can catch him and give him a piece of your mind. He’s always playing tricks on you.
# | 誤 | Mistake | ご ; あやま | Say + Catapult | They say accidentally firing a catapult is an unforgivable mistake. They say you shot the catapult at your own castle. Even though it was an accident, it’s still a mistake you will never be forgiven for. Imagine shooting the catapult on your own people by mistake. Hear the catapult whoosh as your heart drops into your stomach. Oh, what a terrible mistake you’ve just made. This mistake alerts Godzilla (ご), who thinks it's town destroying time. He barrels over the hills, sees where you mistakenly catapulted your own people, and proceeds to stomp on the rest of it for you. Picture Godzilla jumping happily on the castle and surrounding town you hit by mistake. This is probably the worst mistake you've ever made.
# | 源 | Origin | げん ; みなもと | Tsunami + Original | The original tsunami was the origin of Japan. A big tsunami came and uncovered the islands of Japan. It's the origin of all life, as far as Japanese people are concerned. Picture the original tsunami used in the origin story of Japan. It was huge. Bigger than anything you've ever seen. And without it you wouldn't have your precious anime and manga. This tsunami was also the origin of Genji (げん), from "The Tale of Genji." Just think, without this origin, Japan wouldn't exist and neither would the first Japanese heartthrob, Genji! The origin of Genji was the origin of all Japan: a big ol' tsunami.
# | 純 | Pure | じゅん | Thread + Barracks | Make your barracks out of thread so it will be pure. If you build it out of clay or bricks or wood, it will inevitably have some dirt in it. Build it out of thread to keep it pure of... well, impurities. Imagine a barracks pure white, like pure snow, made of pure thread. This pure thread barracks can only be used in June (じゅん), unfortunately. Any other time of year there will be snow and rain and mud and that will get tracked into the pure barracks and ruin them. But June is the cleanest, most pure month, so you can use it then. Okay, so maybe building a pure barracks that you can only use in June was a bad idea, but it's there now and I don't want you getting it dirty, so just use it when I say so, okay?
# | 薦 | Recommend | せん ; すす | Flowers + Canopy + Helicopter + Bird | You want some flowers to put on the canopy above your helicopter to keep the birds away, so you ask people what they would recommend. You've bought flowers before, but you really don't know which ones would work best to stop birds from landing on the canopy and pooping on your helicopter. You ask for a recommendation from the centaur (せん) that owns the local flower shop. Now he's walking around your helicopter canopy and staring at the birds, nodding. I hope the centaur recommends a cheap flower... but with your luck flowers that keep birds away will cost a fortune.
# | 丼 | Rice Bowl | どん, どんぶり | Well + Drop | Into a well, a drop of rice falls from your rice bowl. You were eating out of your rice bowl on the side of a well, and some rice fell out of your rice bowl and this drop of rice proceeded to fall all the way down. You lost a drop of rice from your rice bowl. Feel sorrow for the lost rice as you watch it fall down the well and hear it splat into the water below. Just then, the don (どん) of your local mafia shows up, steals your rice bowl, and shoves you into the well. You’d gotten on the don’s bad side, so he came to teach you a lesson. The don steals your rice bowl and shoves you into the well. Hear the don shout, “See ya, sucker!” as he pushes you into the well. You’ve just lost a drop of rice, now your rice bowl, and now you’re all wet in a well. Worst day ever.
# | 腐 | Rot | ふ ; くさ | Canopy + Attach + Meat | Attach meat to your canopy and it will rot. Imagine the smell of rotten meat hanging from your canopy. Now no one wants to come near here. You let meat rot. You're a fool (ふ). That's really all I can say at this point. What, did you think attaching this meat to the canopy would make it turn into jerky or something? Fool...
# | 沿 | Run Alongside | えん ; そ | Tsunami + Fins + Mouth | There's a tsunami coming, so you put your fins on, open your mouth wide, and try to run alongside it. Your mouth is open so you can scream, because this is probably a bad idea. You're able to run alongside the tsunami for about ten seconds before everything ends (えん). Okay, so maybe trying to run alongside a tsunami with just some fins and a mouth full of screams and terror wasn't the best idea. But at least everything ended while you did... uh... something unique?
# | 射 | Shoot | しゃ ; い, さ, う | Body + Measurement | You need to take a body measurement before you can shoot. Whether it's for a photo shoot, you're gonna shoot them with a gun, or if you're about to shoot them full of radiation for X-rays, you need the right measurements of that body first. Imagine someone measuring your body before they shoot you. You hope it's the good kind of shoot and that you're not going to die. This shoot is being done by a shaman (しゃ). Not only is he doing the body measurements for the shoot, but he's also going to be shooting you with a shot so you don't get the flu. Shamans are just a different kind of doctor. And this shot is going to save you from getting the flu, which could kill you. Make sure you always go to the local shaman and schedule a shooting.
# | 縮 | Shrink | しゅく ; ちぢ, ちじ | Thread + Roof + Leader + Hundred | A magic thread fell from the roof onto the leader of a hundred people, causing him to shrink! Picture one hundred people under the same roof watching in horror as their leader suddenly shrinks to nothingness before them. As the leader shrinks, the hundred people start screaming and running around the entire place. As a result, everything is shook (しゅく) up. Especially the poor, shrunken leader, who gets knocked around the most. The leader gets shook so badly, he can't even call out to his people. They're going to trample his tiny, shrinking body!
# | 隷 | Slave | れい | Samurai + Jackhammer + Wolverine + Water | A samurai with a jackhammer, and wolverine carrying water?! All these things tell you that they're not just working, but have been made a slave. Traditionally, samurai don't work with jackhammers, and wolverine definitely wasn't made to carry water. The samurai and wolverine are doing these tasks for someone else, meaning they're somebody's slave. You don't like seeing slaves. As you walk by, you hand them a ray (れい) gun so they can free themselves. The samurai and wolverine can use the ray gun to shoot their keeper and get away. Imagine watching them holding up their master and getting away. A ray gun is a truly powerful weapon in the hands of a slave.
# | 粋 | Stylish | すい ; いき | Rice + Nine + Cross | There’s some rice in the shape of a nine on a cross and this is stylish. The rice grains are arranged to form the number nine. This number nine is prominently displayed on the cross, and it’s stylish to carry it around and be seen with it. Imagine hefting this cross with the rice in the shape of a nine on it. You don’t feel stylish, but society tells you that you are. You’re stylish. It’s also stylish to swing (すい) the cross around while you wait for things. You’re waiting at a bus stop so you swing the cross around violently. You swing it so violently that the rice comes flying off! See the rice fly through the air from you swinging the cross. Hear it as it clatters to the ground. This cross just isn’t as stylish anymore now.
# | 痩 | Thin | そう ; や | Sick + Humble + Stool | You are so sick that you've come to look like the humble stool: thin. Eerily thin, in fact. Imagine standing behind a stool and being able to disappear behind it completely. That's how thin this sickness has made you. When you're this thin, your soul (そう) is visible from outside of your body too. Picture your soul pulsing through your thin body. You have no body fat to cover it up, so everyone can see it pulsing and lurking in there. This is why you're hiding behind one of the humble stools in your house.
# | 吐 | Throw Up, Spit, Vomit | は, つ ; と | Mouth + Dirt | If you put dirt in your mouth you're going to throw up. That's just a fact. That's pretty much what throwing up feels like too, right? Like a bunch of dirt coming out of your mouth. Barf. When you throw up it sounds like you're shouting, "HA (は)!" Then all the dirt-puke comes out in a wave. It's less of a laugh ha and more of an oh no I'm throwing up ha. Imagine the sound you made the last time you threw up. It sounded like you were saying HA from the bottom of your tummy.
# | 貴 | Valuable | き ; とうと | Middle + Ground + Shellfish | In the middle of the ground is a shellfish that is very valuable. Inside of this valuable shellfish is a priceless treasure, and it’s just lying there in the middle of the ground. Look at this valuable shellfish. What could be inside? Pick it up and shake it about, trying to guess what valuable thing is enclosed. You want to get the valuable thing from inside the shellfish, but it's locked and you need to find the key (き). Search for the key! You find a bunch of keys, so you try to jam them all into the shellfish one by one, hoping one of them is the right key to get the valuable, hidden treasure.
# | 縦 | Vertical | たて ; じゅう | Thread + Loiter + Horns + Correct | You see a thread that wants to loiter from some horns and you would be correct to assume that it would hang vertical. The thread wants to loiter and hang from one of the horns. When things hang from things, they usually hang vertical, so that’s what this thread is going to do. Look at this vertical thread as it hangs from the horns. Take hold of it and pull on the vertical thread. Feel it in your hand. For some reason, Channing Tatum (たて) is strangely attracted to vertical pieces of hanging thread. Channing Tatum starts batting at the vertical thread like a cat. Look at Channing Tatum playing with this thread. He’s like a cat playing with a piece of yarn. Look at Mr. Tatum bouncing around batting at the thread like some silly feline.
# | 勤 | Work | きん ; つと | Boot + Power | Boots give you the power to work! That's why so many professions require you to have work boots. Imagine putting your boots on and suddenly being filled with the power and energy to work hard and efficiently. You need boots to give you the power to work for the King (きん) of England. Really, all work is for the King, since everything is for him. But even he wears boots. And they give him the power to uh... king over things. Picture yourself in work boots. Now picture the King in work boots. Yours are worn and beaten up and his are clean and look brand new. But at least you both have them, which means you both work at least a little!
# | 拝 | Worship | はい ; おが | Fingers + Dry | Take your fingers and dry them. Then dry them again. This is what you do when you are in  worship. Once you go into your place of worship, and again before you leave. You have really sweaty fingers, and you can't worship anyone or anything if you have wet hands. So you dry them! Picture your sweaty, sweaty fingers. Dry them off before you enter a place of worship! No god wants to deal with your weird, damp hands. Once you're dry and in wherever your worship is, you begin with a haiku (はい). Really all places of worship have their own version of the haiku, and heck, the 5-7-5 rule is just a guideline, so everyone is doing it pretty close to right anyway. Imagine being in your place of worship. Close your eyes and say a haiku: So I won't offend, Lord Crabigator-sama, I dry my hands now.
# | 熊 | Bear | くま | Ability + Boil | The ability to boil is one of the main abilities of a bear. I bet you didn't know this, but a bear can boil whenever it wants. Imagine a bear heating itself up and boiling, its fur and skin bubbling and letting off steam. A bear boiling in front of you should fill you with great honor. Or, as they say in Latin: Magma cum (くま) laude. Get it? A little hot bear humor for you. You can also imagine a bear graduating in the top 5-10% of its class. Or, just imagine a bear saying "Cuma here!" to you.
# | 噌 | Boisterous | そ | Mouth + Mask | Your mouth is wearing a mask so people won't realize you're the one being so boisterous. You want to be loud and rowdy, but you don't want anyone to know it's you. If you cover your mouth with this mask, people won't know you're the one being so boisterous. Go put a mask on right now, cover everything around your mouth so it's hard to tell who you are. Now go outside and be as boisterous as possible! You're being anonymously boisterous outside when suddenly someone shoves soap (そ) in your mouth! "I don't know who you are, but you're much too boisterous! Wash your mouth out with that soap!" they yell. Using your boisterous mouth, taste the disgusting soapy soap. The soap bubbles are already filling your mouth and stinging your tongue. This is the punishment for boisterous hooligans.
# | 彫 | Carve | ちょう ; ほ | Circumference + Hair | There is a circumference around someone's hair, as in, you can see a circle drawn around the top of their head. As you examine it closer, and pull at it a bit, you realize that someone has carved the hair off someone's head! Their hair has literally been carved out of their head, and you discovered it. Of course, the nastiness, the smell, and the feel should be applied to your imagination to make the mnemonic stronger. When you think of all the people who could have done this... all the people who could have carved out someone's hair, only one person comes to mind, and that is Mrs. Chou (ちょう). She's the only person evil enough to do something like this. You can also imagine Mrs. Chou doing the act of carving someone's hair out, but that may just be too much.
# | 杉 | Cedar | すぎ | Tree + Hair | There’s a tree in your hair, I think it’s a cedar. How did that cedar tree get in your hair? (Certain types of cedar trees have bark that comes off in fine threads, making them very hairy trees. So this kanji makes perfect sense!) Imagine having a cedar tree in your hair. It’s just a little tree, a sapling, but it’s pretty strange and awkward. It does smell nice though. Mmm… cedar. Once the cedar is fully grown, you use the cedar wood to make a guitar for Sue. A Sue guitar (すぎ), if you will. This Sue guitar was made just for Sue. She’ll love it. Give Sue her Sue guitar. Hear Sue squeal with glee as she receives her Sue guitar.
# | 喋 | Chat, Talk | しゃべ ; ちょう | Mouth + World + Tree | The mouth of the World Tree, all it does is chat and talk. You'd think the World Tree's mouth would talk wisdom, but all it does is chat, chat, chat. To chat or talk with the World Tree, just head over to Shaman Bay (しゃべ). The locals shorten Shaman Bay to "Sha Bay," because they always go there to 喋る with the World Tree. Imagine all the shamans hanging about in the bay.
# | 銅 | Copper | どう ; あかがね | Gold + Same | Gold is not the same as copper. They are two different metals. Gold is not the same as copper. Take a piece of gold in one hand and a piece of copper in the other. Bang them together furiously as you shout. “GOLD IS NOT THE SAME AS COPPER! GOLD IS NOT THE SAME AS COPPER!” Smashing the copper against the gold has made you tired. You should eat a doughnut (どう). Go get yourself a doughnut. Mmm… doughnuts. Eat the doughnut and taste its yummy flavor as you look at the piece of copper. It’s shiny.
# | 舎 | Cottage | しゃ | Cottage | The kanji and the radical that look like this are exactly the same. They are both cottage. As long as you know the radical cottage, you know the kanji cottage. You got this cottage from a shaman (しゃ). In fact, everyone you know got their cottage from a shaman. One day you're just walking in the woods, and the next thing you know, a shaman is giving you the keys to their old cottage. I guess shamans are moving out a lot around here. Why don't you go look for a cottage you can buy from a shaman! I bet you'll get a pretty good, totally not cursed, deal!
# | 漠 | Desert, Vague | ばく | Tsunami + Greenhouse | A tsunami hits the greenhouse, destroying the last remaining plant life in the area. The tsunami recedes, and there is nothing but sand, and the lands become a desert. The greenhouse was your only hope in turning the desert into a green forest. Now it's all washed away by salt water, meaning nothing will grow anyways. Feel disappointed about this. See the sun come up over the desert, then go back (ばく) down. Up, back down, back up, back down. You stand here for days watching because you're so depressed. Stop being so vague in your approach, sun! You’re weirding everyone out! Up, back down, back up, back down. Move your head up and down to keep up with the sun’s movements. Will it ever rise like normal?
# | 酔 | Drunk | すい ; よ | Alcohol + Nine + Cross | You have an alcohol nine times stronger than any other drink in a bottle shaped like a cross and you drink it all and become drunk. You’re like, so drunk right now from all that alcohol. Nine times more drunk than ever before. Feel how drunk you are as you look at the cross shaped bottle that once held the alcohol. See the cross start to blur in front of you from how drunk you are. If you drink so much that you become drunk, then your alcohol will begin to taste like water. What is the reading of 水? It's すい, which is the reading for this kanji. Speaking of 水, you need to drink some. You need to rehydrate and 水 is the best way to do it. Drink a lot of 水. Go. Now.
# | 炎 | Flame, Blaze | えん ; ほのお | Fire | Fire, fire, flame! There’s flames everywhere! Feel the fire all around you, the flames licking at your body. It’s really hot! The flames gets bigger, surround you, and then everything ends (えん). Sorry, but standing in a blaze isn't the best idea. Flames are pretty efficient at ending the lives of the things in it. Maybe you should do this kanji lesson over and try not to stand in the flames next time.
# | 軒 | House Counter, Eaves | けん ; のき | Car + Dry | Your car is dry because you kept it under the eaves of your house. This kanji has a second meaning too: house counter. Imagine counting all the houses on your block by the number of eaves you see keeping cars dry. One eave, one house. Two eaves, two houses. On top of the eaves of your house Ken (けん) the samurai is counting houses too. Ken hops down and explains that he's been hired to count all the houses in his lord's domain just because his name is the same as the counter for houses. It isn't really fair, he complains to you, as you try to sneak by and lock him out of your house.
# | 紹 | Introduce | しょう | Thread + Call | You create a thread with someone by calling out to them to introduce yourself. You literally call out, and when they turn around, tie a thread to them, so you'll never forget that you introduced yourselves to each other. You want to introduce yourself to the Shougun (しょう) but no matter how much you call out, he won't come close enough for you to tie your introduction thread to him. You call louder and louder, "SHOUGUN LET ME INTRODUCE MYSELF!" Finally the Shougun sighs and turns toward you. You call out your name and get the thread around him. Uh oh. He doesn't look happy.
# | 介 | Jammed In | かい ; すけ | Jammed In | The jammed in radical and the jammed in kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! Look down! You're jammed into something. You can't move your feet. What is this?! Oh, your body's been jammed in a kayak (かい). Picture yourself jammed into a kayak. Your pants are bunching and sticking out the sides and top. You really don't fit in here.
# | 湖 | Lake | こ ; みずうみ | Tsunami + Old + Moon | The tsunamis during the old moons (many moons ago) were responsible for the world's lakes. Where did lakes come from? They are the residue of tsunamis from many moons ago. "That's where lakes come from," you tell the 子 (こ). This is just a stupid story to get this 子 to stop asking "why, why, why?" about everything. Earlier, the 子 asked "where do lakes come from?" and you had to come up with a crazy story to quiet them.
# | 講 | Lecture | こう | Say + Lifeguard | Try to say something to a lifeguard and you'll just end up getting a lecture. A lifeguard's favorite part of the job is telling people what to do, where to swim, when to get out of the water, and they love saying it in a bunch of words. This lecture loving lifeguard is none other than こういち! I mean, look how long winded the stuff on this site is? Can you imagine him trying to give you a talk about proper swimming etiquette? Close your eyes and picture こういち lecturing you. Ugh, it's the worst! Hint: when you see the "lifeguard" radical, the reading is probably going to be こう.
# | 寿 | Lifespan, Longevity | じゅ, す ; ことぶき | Spring + Measurement | In spring, your measurements will reveal your lifespan. Only in spring can you measure your lifespan, just as easily as you measure your height and weight. On the first day of spring, all the girls and boys line up to measure their lifespans. If your lifespan measurement isn't as long as you'd like, you need to drink more small juice (じゅ) boxes this year. They're good for your health, after all! Look at Salmon, over here. She drank a thousand small juice boxes last year and now her measurement says she's gonna live another hundred years!
# | 測 | Measure | そく ; はか | Tsunami + Shellfish + Knife | A tsunami will pick up a bunch of shellfish and dump them on your shore, so you take a knife and measure them. You can't eat shellfish that are too small, so you place your knife along them to measure them. If they're big enough, you stick the knife in and eat them raw. All of the shellfish you measure that are too small go into your sock (そく). Once the sock is full, you swing it around your head and lob it back into the ocean. If you measure one of these shellfish and it's too small, stuff it right into your sock. Then once the sock measures about 12 shellfish long, toss it back to sea!
# | 厄 | Misfortune, Unlucky | やく | Cliff + Snake | If you're on the edge of a cliff with a snake, that's a misfortune. You're hanging off the edge of this cliff and you can't pull yourself back up. Then you notice a snake approaching your fingers, looking like it's gonna bite you. What a misfortune! What will you do? You can either let go and fall off the cliff, or hold on and get bitten by the snake. Man, talk about misfortune. Despite your misfortune, you decide to take your chances and let go of the cliff. Amazingly, a yak (やく) runs below you and catches you as you fall. Saved by the yak! What a nice yak this is. Perhaps your fortune has turned around. Perhaps you aren't as plagued by misfortune as you thought. Your butt sure does hurt from that fall though...
# | 互 | Mutual | ご ; たが | Ground + Shuriken | The ground and a shuriken have mutual respect for one another. The shuriken respects the ground because of how solid and stable it is, and the ground respects the shuriken for how pointy it is. They have great mutual respect here. Pick up the shuriken and throw it into the ground. Hear it whizz through the air and then plunk into the ground. This act of aggression causes their mutual respect to waver. Since you made the shuriken attack the ground, the mutual respect is out of balance. This summons Godzilla (ご) up from the depths of the ocean once more. He always shows up when something is out of wack, to show humans the error of their ways. He picks up the shuriken and flings it into a city, which explodes, leaving a crater in the ground. You give Godzilla a thumbs up, you see what he's trying to do. He looks down at you and nods. Now you have a mutual respect for one another too.
# | 油 | Oil | ゆ ; あぶら | Tsunami + Reason | This tsunami is the reason we have so much oil now. The tsunami moved a bunch of earth out of the way, so now it’s really easy to dig for oil. Thanks tsunami! Watch as this tsunami crashes over the land, pushing earth out of the way. Once the tsunami passes, hear the spewing geysers of oil as they erupt out of the ground. Now that oil is so abundant, everyone lives in yurts (ゆ). They're light and mobile, so people can just move from oil well to oil well, collecting oil. Look at how this oil has changed the world. Instead of living in big homes, condos, or skyscrapers, everyone lives in a yurt at night and travels with all the oil by day.
# | 己 | Oneself, Self | こ, き ; おのれ | Oneself | The kanji and the radical are the same, so remembering the meaning of this kanji is as simple as making sure you know the radical for oneself first! If you know the radical, you know this kanji means oneself as well. Make sure you know those radicals, yo! Oneself. Who only thinks of oneself? Every 子 (こ) in the world. Kids can only think of oneself. Until a certain age, that's literally all they can care about.
# | 鍋 | Pot | なべ ; か | Gold + Mustache | A gold man has one mustache above his lip and one mustache below his lip and keeps all his extra mustaches safely tucked away in a pot. This man is made of gold and has a lot of money. That’s how he can afford to groom two mustaches at the same time. If anything should happen to one, he has plenty of back up mustaches in his mustache storage pot. Picture this double mustachioed gold man as he rifles through his pot of mustaches. Imagine how ticklish they must be. The mustachioed man’s wife asks if he loves his pot of mustaches more than he loves her. “Nah babe (なべ),” he says. “Nah, babe. Nah.” Imagine yourself as this golden man with the mustache (and another mustache). Say “Nah, babe” over and over again like you’re trying to convince your wife that you actually love her more than your pot of luxurious mustaches.
# | 獄 | Prison | ごく | Animal + Say + Dog | You have an animal and you say it’s a dog to prevent it from going to prison. Dogs are the only animals that don’t have to go to prison. Your animal is not a dog, but you say it is to prevent it from going to prison. Imagine any animal that’s not a dog. Now imagine dressing it up like a dog so it doesn’t have to go to prison. Practice throwing your voice by saying “woof woof” aloud to help convince people that your animal is actually a dog. What is the name of your animal? Your animal is named Goku (ごく). Yeah, like Goku from Dragon Ball Z. You don’t want your little Goku to go to prison, so you say that he’s a dog. Poor little Goku doesn’t want to go to prison either so Goku does his best to act like a dog even though he isn’t. How adorable.
# | 戚 | Relatives | せき | Slide + Drunkard + Above + Small | There's a slide with a drunkard above it, and they're making you feel small. And the worst part is that the drunkard is one of your relatives. A slide isn't the safest place for a drunkard to be. You try to help your relative down but they just keep shouting at you and making you feel small. Drunk relatives are the worst. As if things couldn't get worse, your relative seems to think they're sexy (せき) when they're on the slide drunk. Sexy? More like irresponsible! Imagine your intoxicated relative shouting about how sexy they are on that slide. Someone get them down from there!
# | 為 | Sake | い ; ため, な, す | Sake | The sake radical and the sake kanji are exactly the same! Sweet. For goodness sake! Please remember this isn't "sake" as in お酒! It's the English "sake," that rhymes with "bake," "cake," and "steak." Oops.. now I'm hungry. For the sake of convenience, companies will use eagles (い) for delivery jobs in the future. Just put in an order, and it'll be at your doorstep in no time flat. Eagles are like, super fast at delivery. See this eagle as it comes to deliver your order just for your sake. Scree! Hear its wings flap and your package plop down on your porch as it's delivered.
# | 恥 | Shame | は, はじ ; ち | Ear + Heart | Your ear listens to your heart and feels shame. Your heart is full of shame for how you’ve lived your life and when your ear hears all the things you’ve done, your ear feels shame too. Feel the shame. Feel the shame in both your ear and your heart. Imagine the things you’ve done to make you feel so much shame. You must cleanse your spirit of this shame. You decide to complete Haj (はじ). (Haj is the fifth pillar of Islam, and is a pilgrimage to Mecca during the month of Dhu al-Hijja). Upon arrival in Mecca, you think of a funny joke and bust out laughing. “HAHAHAHAHAHA!! (は) HAHAHAHAHA!!!” Oh man, you’re in a temple and that was completely inappropriate. You feel even more shame than before. You’re super embarrassed for bringing so much shame on yourself again. But then you think of another joke. “Hahaha!” Better luck with the next Haj, I guess.
# | 遅 | Slow, Late | ち ; おそ, おく | Scooter + Flag + Sheep | Next to the scooter, there's a flag warning you that there are sheep around here, so you should go slow. That means you might be late, but at least the sheep will be okay! It's also a warning to the sheep that if they want to ride scooters they should also slow down, because as we all know, sheep are speed demons. You follow the flag, but the sheep refuse to slow down so you have to get creative. You place cheese (ち) every ten feet or so, that way the sheep slow down to bend down on their scooters and take a bite. Picture all of the sheep finally going slowly because there is yummy cheese all over the road.
# | 汁 | Soup | じゅう ; しる | Tsunami + Cross | A tsunami carries a cross into your soup. Hey tsunami, I was eating that soup! Picture a bowl of soup, but now there is a cross and some tsunami water in it. You pull the cross out of your soup and see that the cross' jewels (じゅう) fell off and are in there now. The jewels sparkle, shine, and dissolve into the soup! You're curious so you take a sip of this jewel soup and... it's delicious! You should make more and sell it!
# | 醤 | Soy Sauce | しょう | Commander + Alcohol | The commander's alcohol is really just soy sauce. When he goes out to drink with his troops and they all get drunk together, he manages to have fun and stay sober by drinking down a tasty, non-alcoholic pint of soy sauce. The next time you go to a bar, order yourself a commander's alcohol. It's like saying you want a Roy Rogers or a Shirley Temple, except it isn't pretty and it tastes horrible. Soy sauce also happens to be the Shougun's (しょう) favorite drink. Unfortunately, he can't just tell people he likes drinking glasses of soy sauce, or they'll look at him weird. Instead he orders it as a commander's alcohol too. Picture the Shougun sitting on his throne, guzzling down some salty, brown soy sauce. It's splashing on his robes and the smell is making his assistants gag.
# | 滞 | Stagnate | たい ; とどこお | Belt + Tsunami | A tsunami, once stopped by a belt, will begin to stagnate. This belt is a belt of water resistance, so the belt stops the tsunami. The belt has caused the tsunami to stagnate. Watch this belt as it stagnated the tsunami. See the belt glow as its enchantment activates, immediately stagnating the tsunami water. While you watch the tsunami stagnate, you get ready for work. While you were watching this whole thing happening, you were tying your tie (たい). Once the tsunami stagnated, you were all done tying your tie. And since the tsunami is no longer a threat, you’re ready to go to work. Look in the mirror at you in your tie. Put the finishing touches on your outfit and imagine going out into the world with your tie on, no longer afraid of any tsunamis. They’re all stagnant now thanks to that magical belt.
# | 剣 | Sword | けん ; つるぎ | Squid + Knife | Tie a squid to a knife and you get a sword! Knives are too small to be considered a sword on their own. That's why you strapped a squid to it. They're the right shape, kinda pointed, so no one will know it's just a knife. Imagine creating your own sword out of a knife and a squid. You learned how to make swords this way from Ken (けん) the samurai. He put his own little squid buddy on his knife and now no one realizes it's not a sword! Picture Ken swinging his squid sword at you. *Squish* it squirts ink on your shoulder. But it doesn't really hurt.
# | 破 | Tear | は ; やぶ | Stone + Skin | If you scrape a sharp stone against your skin, it will tear. The sharp stone tears your skin. It hurts! Imagine this sharp stone. Feel its weight in your hand. Now drag the sharp stone against your skin. Feel your skin as it begins to tear. The pain is agonizing. The moment your skin tears you can't help but yelp "Ha (は)!" It sounds like a laugh, but it's more like a pained bark. You make this noise when you tear other things with the sharp stone too, but now it's more of a HA! TAKE THAT! Feel the same pain I feel!
# | 涙 | Teardrop | なみだ ; るい | Tsunami + Door + Big | A tsunami goes through a little door, and plops down a big drop on your face. This tsunami is your tears inside your eye area. The door is your tear duct. The big drop is the teardrop coming down your eye. Imagine a teardrop going through this process to get out of your eye, though in a more miniature teardrop size. Your teardrops are like little waves. What are they? They're 波だ (なみだ). Feel each teardrop rolling like a little wave down your cheek. You've never paid such close attention to them before. Teardrops really are just 波だ, you think. Little, ticklish waves.
# | 亀 | Turtle | かめ ; き | Turtle | The turtle radical and the turtle kanji are exactly the same! Nice!  You know Dragon Ball Z, right? Imagine this turtle doing a Kamehameha (かめ). The turtle charges up his energy and releases a mighty Kamehameha blast. Shwooom! See this turtle as he gathers energy, shaking the earth around him, gathering chi for his Kamehameha blast. He releases it in a mighty blast of energy. Kamehameha!!
# | 酢 | Vinegar | す ; さく | Alcohol + Key | To make alcohol the key is to ferment it. But, if you ferment it a certain way, it will become vinegar. Imagine making a bunch of vinegar. You use a key to change it from alcohol to vinegar, yum! You are demonstrating this practice in front of an audience. You want them to take you seriously so you wear a suit (す). A very nice suit. Surely they will now believe that you can turn alcohol into vinegar. Imagine yourself doing the same thing as before but you are now wearing a suit. Dang, you look good.
# | 諾 | Agreement | だく | Say + Flowers + Right | You say something and the flowers are right in agreement. The flowers see where you are coming from when you say what you say. You and the flowers are in complete agreement. What did you say to the flowers that you are so in agreement about? Think about what you said. You and the flowers are in agreement on the fact that neither of you like when a duck (だく) walks across the flowers. You don’t like having a duck walk on the flowers because the duck will poo in the flowers and then you have to worry about stepping in it. And the flowers just don’t like having duck poo in their face. Imagine you are the flowers. There’s a duck. It’s making a poo. On you. Ew, man, that’s disgusting. Bleh.
# | 盟 | Alliance | めい | Bright + Plate | I’ll give you this bright plate if you agree to an alliance with me. I know you like things that are bright, and I know you like plates too. Therefore, this bright plate should be more than enough to convince you to enter into an alliance with me. Look at this bright plate. Look at it. It’s awesome. It’s blinding. Hold it in your hands. Marvel at it. Wow. This plate is sweet. The person you are trying to get in an alliance with you is the captain of the Mayflower (めい). You want to be in an alliance with the captain of the Mayflower because you really like boats. You want to ride on the Mayflower like, so bad. This Mayflower boat is the best boat you ever did see. Hear the ocean around it as it bobs in the water, full sails billowing in the wind. Boats are cool.
# | 将 | Commander | しょう | Commander | The commander radical and the commander kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! Who is the commander of Japan? The Shougun (しょう)! And if you ever say anyone else or vote for someone else or even THINK about someone else being the commander, he'll find you and cut off your head. You better remember the Shougun is the commander of everything... or else...
# | 舞 | Dance | ぶ ; まい, ま | Nothing + Dance | The nothing dance is still a dance! If you want to do the nothing dance, just clear your head so there's nothing in it, and then dance! To help you do this dance you need some booze (ぶ). Just enough so it's easier to think of nothing, let all your fears go, and dance. Feel the booze coursing through your veins as you dance like no one is watching.
# | 債 | Debt | さい | Leader + Blame | Your leader gets the blame if your company is in debt. They're the one who led you all into that debt, so they should get the blame too. Picture the leader standing up in front of everyone as they blame him. He's holding a plaque with the amount of debt you're all in. Try to imagine what that number would be. To pay off this debt your leader says you need to sell your cyborg (さい) to help the company. You fight him! You yell! You scream! The cyborg puts a half-human half-robot hand on your shoulder and shakes its head sadly. Watch as your cyborg saves your company, even though it wasn't even his responsibility, from crippling debt. *sob* I can't believe your cyborg is gone!
# | 伎 | Deed | き, ぎ ; わざ | Leader + Branch | The leader of your branch became the leader from doing deeds. You can't rise to the rank of branch leader if you don't perform a certain number of deeds! Most of them good, I hope. Picture the leader of your branch doing deeds around your office. Pulling out chairs for people sitting down, emptying the trash, balancing spreadsheets. All good deeds. The deed he's currently working on is finding your lost key (き). He doesn't have to help, you're the one who lost your own house-combination-car key. But he's so used to doing deeds, he can't help but help. Picture him doing this deed. He's crawling around on the floor looking for your key. You aren't really helping, you're just watching him do the deed of key-searching for you.
# | 鹿 | Deer | か, しか ; ろく | Canopy + Helicopter + Compare | A canopy and a helicopter are being compared by a deer. The deer is standing very still (as deer do) and looking very slowly between the empty canopy and the helicopter sitting next to it. Picture the deer comparing the two structures. It probably has no idea what they are, but it's trying very hard to understand what it's seeing anyway. You walk forward, about to call out to the deer, when a car (か) suddenly appears out of no where and runs the deer over! Was this all just a trap set up to murder the deer?! Deer get hit by cars all the time, but it was still really shocking . I mean it was right in front of you. The car could have hit you too!
# | 換 | Exchange | かん ; か | Fingers + Prison + Mouth + Legs + Big | In prison, when you have access to a big number of fingers, mouths, and legs you can exchange them for things that are worth more to you. What are you gonna do with all these body parts in prison? You should exchange them for cigarettes and toilet alcohol. You just have so many fingers, mouths, and legs you've pummeled off of the other prisoners. Exchange them for better loot! You learned this type of exchange from the mighty Genghis Khan (かん). You read a book or watched a show about him once and you're pretty positive that Genghis Khan would exchange the body parts of his enemies all over the continents of Asia and Europe for nicer stuff. Think back to when you were a kid and they would roll out those TVs on stands into the classrooms. Imagine watching a documentary on Genghis Khan's exchange routes where he bought and sold body parts. Educational!
# | 姓 | Family Name, Surname | せい, しょう | Woman + Life | If there's a special woman in your life, she might eventually take your family name and make it her surname too. In Japan and other countries, tradition dictates that women change their last name when they get married and keep that name for the rest of their life. Their partner’s family name becomes their family name too. Imagine having your surname changed for the rest of your life. How do you feel about having a different family name? Is it a big deal to you or does it not matter much? Picture this special woman in your mind. She's changing her surname to yours and taking hold of your special saber (せい) as well. And it's... it's splitting in two! Now you share a family name AND a holy blue saber! You can protect your legacy (and surname) hand in hand and saber in saber. (Or something like that.)
# | 牙 | Fang, Tusk | げ, が ; きば | Fang | The fang radical and the fang kanji are exactly the same! Fantastic. Oh, also it means tusk. It means fang and tusk. Since the fang radical is the same as the fang kanji, that should be easy to remember. Tusks aren’t too different from fangs, so that shouldn’t be too hard to remember either. Lots of animals have fangs, even ones that don't look like they do. The coolest fang-having animal is the gecko (げ)! They have pretty sharp little fangs in their mouths and they'll bite you if you keep tapping their glass cages like that. Cut it out. Picture a gecko with cute little fangs. You can keep thinking they're cute as long as one never bites you. They may be little, but gecko fangs are no joke!
# | 旧 | Former | きゅう | Stick + Sun | There’s a stick next to the sun, reflecting on its former glory. The stick used to be a great tree, and the stick thinks that if it stays by the sun long enough it might return to its former form as a towering tree. Pretend you are the stick. Really focus on your former self as you feel the sun warm you with its rays. Imagine yourself growing, larger and larger. It's working, it's working! The stick is returning to its former state and... w-wuh? It sprouted a cucumber (きゅう). I guess this stick was formerly a cucumber tree. Or maybe it just tried so hard it pooped a cucumber. I don't care which one is true, you pick whatever you want to believe.
# | 炒 | Fry | いた, い ; しょう, そう | Fire + Few | Fire is one of a few things you'll need to fry things. You need a few other things like a pan and some oil too, but fire is gonna be the most important for frying! You love to fry things and are also an adventurous eater (いた). This means you'll fry and eat just about anything. Fried ostrich, fried alligator, fried chocolate, you name it! Your being an adventurous eater of all things fried truly knows no bounds. What cursed combination of foods will you fry up tomorrow?!
# | 般 | Generally, General | はん | Boat + Weapon | A boat will have at least one weapon, generally. In general, you can assume a boat will have a weapon, but not all of them will. Generally a boat with a weapon will be owned by Han (はん) Solo. So of all the boats out there, generally all of them have weapons, and generally Han Solo will be on one.
# | 津 | Harbor | つ ; しん | Tsunami + Brush | There’s a huge tsunami, caused by a giant brush, fast approaching you and your harbor. This harbor is all you’ve got, it’s the backbone of your life. So how are you going to defend it from this tsunami caused by a giant brush?! You’ll defend your harbor with your two (つ) best friends, that’s how! Luckily, your two friends specialize in defending harbors from giant brush-caused tsunamis. Quite the occupation. “How are two of my friends going to stop an entire tsunami from destroying my dear harbor?”, you might ask yourself. Well don’t ask us, we don’t specialize in brush-caused tsunami harbor defence—we’re just a kanji learning website!
# | 療 | Heal | りょう | Sick + Charcoal | If someone is sick feed them charcoal to heal them. Okay, so maybe you shouldn't feed it directly to them, but charcoal has amazing water filtration powers. So put charcoal in their water and the water will heal them right up. Imagine being sick. Like sick as a dog sick. And then you take some charcoal, put it into your drinking water, and then you're healed! You aren't the only one that needs to be healed, so you take your row (りょう) boat out onto the lake where your town gets its drinking water and you dump a bunch of charcoal into it! Now everyone will be healed when they drink. Picture yourself rowing your row boat into the lake with huge chunks of solid charcoal. You carefully break them up and toss them over the side, so you can heal everyone.
# | 継 | Inherit | けい ; つ | Thread + Lion + Rice | With a thread, a lion sews together all the rice he'll inherit from his parents one day. He's convinced his parents are going to try to keep some of his inheritance from him, so he's linking it all together so it can't go anywhere. Picture this lion surrounded by the thousands of grains of rice he'll inherit from his parents. He's carefully threading them all together. If you're going to inherit something from your parents, try to convince them to make it cake (けい), not rice. A single cake is much easier to keep track of and probably tastier (though it will be super stale by the time they die). I'd much rather inherit a cake than a ton of hard to keep track of rice, like this poor lion.
# | 遺 | Leave Behind | い, ゆい ; のこ | Scooter + Valuable | When you go on a scooter, anything valuable, you need to leave behind. Rings, necklaces, wallets, phones? Don't take them on a scooter. Leave behind all that valuable stuff! Anything you don't leave behind will be stolen by eagles (い). Eagles like shiny, valuable things, especially ones that are bouncing around on you while you scoot by on a scooter. If you keep too many of your valuables on you, the eagles might not leave you behind either! They'll just pick you up off the scooter and carry you and your valuables off to their nests!
# | 維 | Maintain | い | Thread + Turkey | You tie a piece of thread to your turkey in order to maintain proximity to it. The turkey likes to run away, so you tie a thread to it. This way you can hold the other end and maintain your turkey. Imagine holding onto a thread that is attached to a turkey. Feel the turkey tug against the thread as you struggle to maintain control. The reason the turkey is tugging is because there’s an eagle (い) swooping down to attack the turkey. You try to maintain control, but once you see the eagle as well, you let go of the thread. Now you and the turkey and the eagle are all bumbling about in pandemonium. You try to maintain order but it’s not possible. What a kerfuffle.
# | 奈 | Nara | な | Big + Jackhammer | There is a big jackhammer in Nara. That jackhammer is the biggest in all the land and is on display in Nara, Japan. Look at this big jackhammer. Look at it. It’s so big. Also it’s in Nara. Imagine being in Nara and looking at this big jackhammer. You’re all like, dang – that’s a big jackhammer. What’s the first part of Nara? Na (な). Well that’s easy. Just keep in mind what the first part of Nara is. The first part of Nara is “na” so you’ll have no trouble remembering this one.
# | 核 | Nucleus | かく | Tree + Slice | You take a tree and slice it until you reach its nucleus. To get to the nucleus of the tree you have to make many a slice, but it’s possible. Imagine slicing this tree smaller and smaller until you finally get to the nucleus of it. It’s super tiny so you have to view it in a microscope. What does it look like? It looks like a cock (かく). And by cock I mean a male chicken – a rooster. Why does the nucleus of a tree look like a cock? Science is weird. Look at this tree nucleus that looks like a cock. While you’re watching it, the nucleus goes “Cock-a-doodle-doo!”
# | 廃 | Obsolete | はい ; すた | Canopy + Departure | This canopy, after your departure, will become obsolete. The canopy was here to protect you, but no one will need it once you're gone. During your departure you look back at the obsolete canopy just once. It's standing there, still and alone. It's a really sad sight. When something becomes obsolete, you must write a haiku (はい). Honestly, the best haiku are about something ending, so this is perfect. My sweet canopy, I don't need you anymore, You are obsolete
# | 献 | Offer | けん, こん ; たてまつ | South + Dog | The South Dog gives you an offer. None of the other dogs in the North, East, or West offered you anything. It is well known that dogs in the South are famous for their kindness and hospitality. It's customary to always offer something when a guest arrives. The South Dog offers you the services of Ken (けん) the samurai as you traverse his lands. Ken offers to carry you, too. Imagine him offering this. You can choose whether or not to accept in your mind.
# | 沖 | Open Sea | おき ; ちゅう | Tsunami + Middle | There is a tsunami in the middle of the open sea. Luckily there are no ships around, so the tsunami in the middle of the open sea is not damaging to anyone. Look at this tsunami in the middle of the open sea. When the tsunami isn’t destroying things and is just out there in the open sea it looks really majestic and pretty. Someone dares you to go out to the open sea and surf on the middle of the tsunami. “Oki (おき) doki,” you reply. You can’t refuse a dare. Every time someone dares you to do something, you always respond with “oki doki”. You really regret saying oki doki this time. You don’t want to surf on a tsunami in the middle of the open sea. Imagine doing so. It’s terrifying and wet and you don’t even know how to surf. You’re going to die.
# | 漬 | Pickle | つ | Tsunami + Blame | Tsunamis get blamed because they pickle everything in their path. That means that everything smells of pickles after a tsunami. Imagine a tsunami crashing over the land, being blamed by everyone. In its path are piles and piles of pickles, as far as the eye can see! Looking at all those pickles, you bend down and pick up two (つ) of them. One in each hand. You look at the pickles in your hand and wonder whether to try one. Picture the two pickles and imagine what kind of pickles they are.
# | 摘 | Pluck | てき ; つ | Fingers + Mohawk | Stick your fingers in your mohawk and pluck each hair out, one by one. Imagine plucking the hairs out of your mohawk with your fingers. It's kind of hard to grab onto them at first, but eventually you're plucking them like it's nothing. You want to pluck all your mohawk hair out because you're a techie (てき), and everyone at your techie job keeps making fun of you for your hair choices. "Techies should be bald!" your boss screamed. So here you are, plucking your hair out to fit in. You didn't realize techies were so inclusive... but they just plucked and plucked at your self-esteem, until you decided to pluck your hair out of your own head.
# | 及 | Reach | きゅう ; およ | Escalator | Escalators are used to reach things. Imagine yourself on an escalator. What is up above that you’re trying to reach? You're riding the escalator trying to reach a delicious cucumber (きゅう). Cucumbers grow on trees sometimes, so you need to take escalators to get up there and reach them.
# | 依 | Reliant, Dependent | い ; よ | Leader + Clothes | A leader has clothes that he is quite reliant on. The leader needs his clothes to make him look like a leader. The leader has become more reliant on his clothes than he is on his actual skills as a leader! Imagine this leader in his clothes. Look how reliant he is on them. Imagine what he would be without his clothes – nothing! And also, naked. The leader has become so reliant on his clothes that his judgment has been clouded. His kingdom has become infested with eagles (い) but the leader does nothing, trusting that his clothes will rout out the eagles if it is something that needs to be done. He’s become so reliant on his clothes that he’s started to become not so good a leader anymore. Look at the leader as he shouts at his clothes he’s become so reliant on to do something. Hear the countless eagles screeching around as they terrorize the neighborhood. People scream and weep in the streets.
# | 縄 | Rope | じょう ; なわ | Thread + Turtle | Someone threaded a turtle into long skinny pieces, making a rope. A rope made of threaded turtles. Go ahead and grab onto it and see how it feels. A little rough, but strong. The person making these threaded turtle ropes is none other than the local farmhand Joe (じょう). You watch him stretch and peel pieces of turtle off of turtles, then thread them together into a rope. Besides being awful, where did Joe learn to thread turtles into ropes? Why does he have so many turtles despite living on such an inland farm? These are nice ropes that Joe is making though, and you kind of want to buy some.
# | 鮭 | Salmon | さけ, しゃけ ; かい, けい | Fish + Dirt | What kind of fish jumps from dirt to dirt? A salmon! When you're at the river watching salmon jumping up stream, they keep jumping onto the dirt, flopping back into the water, then doing it again. You make a drinking game out of watching the salmon going up stream. Every time one jumps onto the dirt, you drink a shot of 酒 (さけ). You realize you're drunk when you ask for more さけ but it comes out as しゃけ. Salmon. Drink さけ. Salmon. Drink さけ. Salmon. Drink... "Ughhh.... I'm feeling tipsy... Hey, where's my しゃけ!?"
# | 踏 | Step | とう ; ふ | Foot + Water + Sun | You soak each foot in water before going out in the sun to take your first step. Stepping on the ground when it's been baking in the hot sun can burn your feet, so you're careful to make them wet with water before stepping outside even once. Imagine each step on hot, sun-baked asphalt. The water under your feet sizzles, leaving steaming footprints where you stepped from. Each step you take brings you closer to とうきょう. Unfortunately, the sun keeps getting hotter, meaning you have to take breaks between steps more often, to get your feet wet with even more water. But you're determined to reach とうきょう, no matter how many steps it takes. Each step is taking you closer to とうきょう. Don't forget that, no matter how hard it seems, don't lose your motivation to keep stepping forward toward your goal. ♡
# | 伸 | Stretch | の ; しん | Leader + Humble | A leader who's humble will stretch in front of everyone. They'll show that they have to get up every hour or so and stretch just like the rest of us. The leader is humble and human, just like the rest of us, and has to stretch to stay healthy too. He's not some kind of god! The leader is currently working hard to stretch in front of all of you, and as he does, he munches on some nori (の) seaweed snacks. Then he starts stretching the nori too. Watch as the leader stretches his body and the nori seaweed. He takes a bite, stretches the other way, then stretches out a piece for you to eat too. How humble of him!
# | 甘 | Sweet | あま ; かん | Sweet | The sweet radical and the sweet kanji are exactly the same! Double sweet.  The sweet, sweet sensation is almost overwhelming. You gotta put on some sweet resistant armor (あま) to protect you from all that sweetness. The armor will prevent you from having a sweet, sweet sweetness overload. Put on the armor! Feel its weight on your body. Now taste the sweet flavor on your tongue. It’s sweet, but not too sweet.
# | 貿 | Trade | ぼう | Private + Sword + Shellfish | You send your private sword man out with your shellfish so he can trade them. Shellfish were used as currency back in the olden days. And you aren't going to go out trading and dirty your own hands, no no. Trading your shellfish is the job for the private sword you hired! Imagine your private sword holding a big bag of shellfish and going off to market to trade them. While he's out making the trade for you, you decide to relax and do some bowling (ぼう). In fact, you can't wait for the trade to be done because you're hoping he's going to come back with a new bowling ball for you. Oh boy, I hope my private sword trades my shellfish for that new bowling ball I heard about!
# | 頼 | Trust | らい ; たの, たよ | Bundle + Geoduck | A bundle of geoducks is something you can always trust. A bundle of geoducks will never lie, never let you down, and never disappoint you. You can trust them completely. While you can trust a bundle of geoducks, never ever trust rye (らい) bread. Imagine a bundle of geoducks and a piece rye bread. Think about how you can trust the geoducks but you can't trust the rye bread.
# | 超 | Ultra, Super | ちょう ; こ | Run + Call | You run and call out to people at the same time because you're super ultra excited right now. You have a super crazy amount of energy you need to get out with your running and calling. You're going for an ultra run, calling out with your super loud voice right down the middle of the street. You're just becoming ultra tired when you hear a terrifying sound. It's Mrs. Chou (ちょう) barreling down toward you. "WERE YOU CALLING FOR ME, CHILD?!" she screams. Mrs. Chou is super ultra scary. And if you don't kick it into super ultra high gear she's going to catch up to you and make you super ultra dead.
# | 叔 | Uncle, Aunt | お ; しゅく | Above + Small + Stool | There were lots of things that were above you when you were small that you would need a stool to reach, so you just asked your aunt or uncle to get them for you. Your parents didn't want you having those things, which is why they put them up high, but your aunt and uncle would always spoil you and get them for you. You ask your aunt and uncle to help you reach your special obi (お) from high up in the closet. You aren't supposed to wear your obi unless it's a special occasion, but your aunt and uncle don't know that. Now you can run around with it on your head and your parents can't stop you by putting it up high!
# | 湧 | Well Up | ゆう ; わ | Tsunami + Courage | When you see a tsunami coming, courage will well up inside you, giving you the power to save everyone before you get washed away! Really feel the courage welling up inside of you in the face of this terrifying tsunami. Connect it to some physical feeling—perhaps you can feel it welling up in your chest. Whom does that courage well up inside of? You (ゆう)! In fact, YOU feel like there is a never ending well of courage bursting out of you now. You are going to be a hero! Who wells up with courage? You do!
# | 幅 | Width | はば ; ふく | Towel + Scarecrow | You want to put this towel over this scarecrow, but you have to measure its width first. If the towel doesn't have a greater width than the scarecrow, some of it will be showing. Which you definitely don't want. The scarecrow creeps you out. You don't want to look at it anymore, so you're standing eerily close to it measuring its width, so you can hide it forever. You finish measuring the width of the scarecrow and the width of the towel, and you realize you're the width of a habanero (はば) pepper short. This is fine, you grow those. This is a whole field of habaneros! So you pluck one off the nearest plant, tape it to the cloth, and cover that scarecrow right up. Do you know the width of a habanero? It's one scarecrow minus one cloth.
# | 患 | Afflicted | かん ; わずら | Skewer + Heart | A skewer to the heart has afflicted your health. You’ve been afflicted with a disease from the skewer to your heart. Your affliction is death. You’re dying. You did not wish to be afflicted as such. Feel the skewer in your heart and the great pain it gives you. You know you’re dying. Since you’re afflicted with the death, you start to hallucinate and the ghost of Genghis Khan (かん) appears before you. "Ah, I was afflicted of the same disease. It killed me, you know." You look on in horror as the affliction grabs hold and everything starts to fade, but Genghis Khan still floats before you, watching you closely.
# | 狙 | Aim | そ ; ねら | Animal + Top Hat | You see an animal wearing a top hat and decide to aim at it. The top hat is a perfect, giant target you use to take down this animal. It's much easier to aim for an animal wearing a top hat than one without. Ready, steady, aim... fire! You throw a bar of soap (そ) at the animal. Yes, soap. You were sitting in your bathtub, washing and scrubbing, then the animal in the top hat caught your eye. Your aim with the soap is perfect! The soap knocked the animal's hat right off.
# | 陣 | Army Camp | じん | Building + Car | This building is full of cars because it's an army camp. The cars (and tanks and planes) need to be ready to go at any moment just like the soldiers. Picture an army camp housing all of the different cars the army needs at any given time. All of the people in the army camp are wearing jeans (じん). You thought soldiers were supposed to wear uniforms, but it looks like when they're in the camp they have to wear jeans. Jeans are pretty durable, now that you think about it. And if the soldiers are working on these cars in the camp while they're there, it makes sense to wear a nice pair of jeans.
# | 塁 | Base, Baseball Base | るい | Rice Paddy + Explosion + Dirt | There's an explosion in the dirt under a rice paddy, exposing the hidden base under there. A base from baseball! I guess this rice paddy was built on top of an old baseball field... Picture a serene rice paddy. Now watch the whole thing explode, rice and dirt going everywhere, and a secret, underground baseball base is left there, smoldering. Unfortunately, thanks to the explosion, the base is in ruins (るい). It's dark and smokey and kinda half burned. You probably can't get this in a regulation game. Hold this ruined base in your hands. Darn, you love baseball. At least it's a collectible.
# | 弾 | Bullet | だん ; ひ, はず, たま | Bow + Simple | What's more simple than a bow? A bullet. Bullets just have to be shot out of a gun and somebody dies. Bows you have to load with an arrow and pull it back and aim, yuck. Bullets are the new bows, people. Imagine how simple life would be if we replaced all the bows in the world with bullets. (Insert sarcastic crying face here.) If you want to shoot bullets, you need to do it at dawn (だん). Back in the old days, it wasn't bright enough to shoot arrows at dawn, but you can shoot bullets at dawn because they're simpler to use! Imagine shooting bullets into the sun at dawn. Pow pow, take that history! Blam blam, take that dawn!
# | 葬 | Burial | そう ; ほうむ | Flowers + Yakuza + Spoon + Twenty | You brought flowers to place on top of the place where a yakuza took a spoon and killed twenty people, and there is now a burial happening. You carefully toss the flowers in with the dirt and everything is buried together. This is the biggest burial you've ever seen. The hole is huge. It has to fit twenty people, after all, and the spoon didn't cut them up to make things any easier. Once the burial is complete the souls (そう) of all the dead people come floating up and out of the ground. "Thaaannk YooOoOO~" they moan, as they ascend to the sky. I guess the twenty souls couldn't go up to... wherever... until they had a proper burial.
# | 抗 | Confront | こう ; あらが | Fingers + Lid + Table | You take your fingers and slam a lid on the table. You make this big noise to confront the person in front of you. They weren't listening, which is why you slammed that lid down. You'll have to confront them more directly. You are trying to confront Emperor こういち. You're confronting him about all the kanji he's forcing you, and everyone else, to learn. "Look here こういち! I know you said I'd learn like 2000 kanji in no time, but this is way too efficient! What will the people do when they're done? Do you think they will sit idly by?" こういち is laughing at you as you confront him. Which makes you angrier, so you bang the lid on the table some more.
# | 崩 | Crumble | ほう ; くず | Mountain + Moon | Below this mountain, a moon and another moon crash into each other and the entire thing crumbles to pieces. Watch as the moons crumble together, and then the mountain slowly crumbles down into them too. As the mountain crumbles you see your home (ほう), which is at the very top of the mountain, come crumbling down too. Your home crumbles like a dry cookie until it's nothing more than a bunch of dust, mixed in with the mountain and the moon. Now where will you live?
# | 遣 | Dispatch | けん ; つか, や | Scooter + Insect + Bear | On the scooter is an insect and a bear. The bear immediately stomps the insect, squishing it flat. "My god, the insect is smashed. Someone call dispatch!" Imagine the conversation with emergency services. They say they will dispatch an ambulance immediately. Out of the dispatched ambulance jumps Ken (けん) the samurai. "Dispatch sent me! I'm here to fix that insect." He takes out a very tiny katana and performs surgery right there. The insect dies on the scooter. "It looks like I've dispatched this insect to the afterlife."
# | 掲 | Display | けい ; かか | Fingers + Sun + Prison + Spoon | You're in prison, but you can use your fingers and a spoon in the light of the sun to display little moving pictures on your cell wall. It's like a shadow puppet display except you can only make a few characters with your limited hand tools. Imagine displaying your two favorite characters in the shadows on your prison cell walls. This one is mister fingers and this one is missus spoon. They're best friends. There is one thing you display more than anything else and it's cake (けい). You smush your fingers to make a cake shape and use the spoon to pretend you're eating it. Imagine displaying cake on the wall. Now pretend to eat the shadow cake with your spoon. You can almost taste it. Except you can't, because this is still prison.
# | 爆 | Explode | ばく ; は | Fire + Violence | If you combine fire with violence, it will explode! A fire, once full of violence, will surely explode. The fire can’t handle all that violence so the fire just rumbles and shakes and then finally explodes. BOOM! Imagine the fire explode. Feel the heat of the fire and the explosion. It’s very violent. BOOM BOOM BA-BOOM! As you watch the fire explode, you start to back (ばく) away. I don’t blame you. You need to back away or else you’ll get caught in the violent explosion. Back away a little more just to be safe. Imagine yourself as you back away from the explosion. As you back away, see the fire dance and feel the heat of the explosion on your face.
# | 眉 | Eyebrows | み, び ; まゆ | Flag + Stick + Eye | You're holding a flag on a stick above your eyes to imitate eyebrows. You can't grow any of your own, but you really love eyebrows, so this was the best you could do. Look at yourself in the mirror. You can see the stick holding up the flag and it's very clear you drew some eyebrows onto the flag with some markers, but you still look pretty good (in your opinion). Underneath your fake eyebrows are two slabs of meat (み). Meat helps hair grow, according to many Internet specialists who also happen to sell meat. You're waiting for this meat to foster eyebrow hair, and when that sweet day comes you won't need these flags. Imagine walking around town, holding your eyebrow flags. You can feel the meat sticking above your eyes. They stink and they're weirdly lukewarm, but you know your real eyebrows will grow under them any day now.
# | 恵 | Favor | え, けい ; めぐ | Cross + Rice Paddy + Heart | You carry a cross across a rice paddy with a heart on it to return a favor for your friend. The heart needs to be purified so that’s why you have it on the cross and your friend lives on a rice paddy farm so that’s why you’re running through that. The favor you are paying your friend back with is getting him this heart. He needs a new one and you’re providing it. This is a pretty big favor. Imagine running through a rice paddy carrying a cross with a warm beating heart on it. Thump thump. Thump thump. You arrive at your friend’s place and you can finally return the favor you owe him by presenting him with the heart. “Eh (え)? What’s this? I didn’t ask for this!” “Eh!?!?” you reply. Apparently he didn’t want a real heart, he wanted a candy one. He wanted a Valentine! Imagine how dumb you feel at this miscommunication. Eh? You don’t feel dumb? Well you should!
# | 漁 | Fishing | ぎょ, りょう ; あさ | Tsunami + Fish | A tsunami pushes all the fish closer to land, making for some easy fishing. The tsunami starts out in the middle of the ocean and pushes all the fish towards the coast where everyone does their fishing. With all the fish pushed closer to land and closer together, it’s very easy for people to go fishing in one spot and catch a lot of fish. Imagine going fishing for fish in a fishing spot after a tsunami. There are SO many fish here. Your hook barely touches the water and there’s already a fish on it. Man, fishing like this is easy! Smell the smell of fish and sea air around you. To get to the best fishing spot you need to go (ぎょ) row (りょう) out to the middle of the ocean. You go by means of rowing. To get to the fish and do the fishing, you need to go and row out to sea. Go! Go row! Go and row for the fishing! How do you go? You row! The row part should be pretty easy to remember since you gotta row your boat out to sea, but if you’re having trouble with the go part, just remember that it has the same reading as 魚.
# | 香 | Fragrance | こう, きょう ; かお, か | Grain + Sun | Grain left in the sun blossom and give off a wonderful fragrance. They smell fresh and delicious. There's nothing better than the fragrance of fresh, sun-kissed grain. Imagine this warm, grain fragrance. What does it smell like to you? Cooked rice? Gentle flowers? A warm summer's day? As you sniff this lovely fragrance you get lost in the smell. When you open your eyes again, you see a farming こういち standing in front of you. With... his... arm... up. "Do you like my fragrance? I was genetically modified to have a unique fragrance compared to the other こういちs." This fragrance was こういち's armpits the whole time. You thought it was warm grains. Or... maybe he smells like... grains?
# | 湾 | Gulf | わん | Tsunami + Red + Bow | A tsunami dug out a chunk of the land and now it looks like a big red bow. It's a gulf now! Picture all the famous gulfs you learned about in geography class. Most of them look like someone pressed a bow into them and dug out the land. (And just imagine they're red because the earth is bleeding, making the sand red.) How many tsunamis does it take to make a gulf? Just one (わん). If there were more, then no land would be left behind. It would all be taken into the sea. Watch one tsunami come in and cut out a chunk of land, leaving behind a big, red gulf.
# | 跳 | Hop | ちょう ; と, は | Foot + Omen | Your foot heard an omen and now it's making you hop over things. Imagine your foot hearing this omen, "If you step on a crack, you'll break your mother's back." Now your foot hops over all of the tiny cracks in the street and the sidewalk and you look really silly. As you hop you start to hear an awful scream coming down the street. It's Mrs. Chou (ちょう) and she's running straight for you yelling, "STEP ON MY STREET'S CRACKS! STOP HOPPING OR YOUR MOTHER WILL NEVER BREAK HER BACK!" Now you're hopping away in fear from Mrs. Chou!
# | 抱 | Hug | だ, かか, いだ ; ほう | Fingers + Wrap | Take your fingers and wrap them around another person. This is called a hug. Just make sure you include all the stuff attached to your fingers, like your hands and arms too, otherwise it's more of a squeeze, and we don't want to do that to people. Picture it like you're a baby who is new to hugs. You start with your fingers, spread them out and move forward. Now wrap all that stuff attached to your fingers around another person. You did it! You're hugging now! Who do you love to hug the most? Your dad (だ)! He gives the best hugs. They're warm and big and tight and comforting. The kind of hug dads are really good at giving. Imagine getting a nice, big hug from your dad. Mm. It's cozy and feels like home.
# | 旬 | In Season, Time Of Month, Season | しゅん, じゅん | Prison + Sun | Put the sun in prison and everything will always be in season. If the sun is in prison, the seasons can't change. Want to wear a giant weenie costume all year round? Put the sun in prison on Halloween. Now your weenie body is always in season because it's always the same time of month. You're welcome. Now you know how to keep everything in season. Lifehack! When things are in season for too long, people are going to wonder what's going on. When's Christmas? When's Golden Week? Soon (しゅん), you say. Soon enough, it's June (じゅん) which is the middle of the year so everything is soon. Jokes on them though. Halloween will be in season forever now. Soon it will be Halloween. Soon it will be time for candy. Soon June will end and people will forget about everything else.
# | 聴 | Listen | ちょう ; き | Ear + Cross + Net + Heart | When your ear is crossed with sound, it catches it like a net, and sends it to your heart for processing. Because you're using your heart to process this sound, it means you're giving it a proper listen. Imagine the whole process of sound going through your ear and to your heart, then the gears turning to really understand what someone is saying. It's a real listen, not a fake non-heart listen. You are listening so well to what someone is saying. What are they telling you that is so important? They are telling you of the omen of Mrs. Chou (ちょう), who will destroy the earth. Focus on listening, and focus on their message about Mrs. Chou. Feel afraid about the future because of it.
# | 臨 | Look To | りん ; のぞ | Servant + Gun + Products | You give your servant a gun along with some other products to look to. You can’t look to them yourself since you are very busy. You allow your servant to look to your gun and the other products. Imagine your servant as he looks to your gun and products. You can always look to him to take care of your menial tasks. You feel smug. After your servant is done with your gun and other products you want him to look to your car’s o-ring (りん). There’s something wrong with the o-ring so you want your servant to look to that as well. Imagine your servant as he looks to your car’s o-ring. Hear him clinking and clanking around in the garage as he does so.
# | 兆 | Omen, Trillion | ちょう ; きざ | Omen | The omen radical and the omen kanji are the same! If you know the omen radical, you know the omen kanji as well! You listen to the omen, in it, it tells of an event in the future when Mrs. Chou (ちょう) will destroy the world. You can clarify with the person telling you the omen several things: "Do you believe in the omen about Mrs. Chou destroying the world?" "When will this omen about Mrs. Chou come true?" etc. As long as you're associating omen with Mrs. Chou you should be good, so keep harping on that. Anyway, whenever you hear any kind of omen (omen is a radical in the kanji), there's a good chance it's going to be about Mrs. Chou.
# | 契 | Pledge | けい | Life + Sword + Big | The weight of life on your sword is big when you pledge to protect your city. That's the big, big weight of every single person's life in that city pressing down on you every time you take out that sword. Imagine holding up your sword and pledging to protect the lives of everyone in this city. It's a big deal! Until the city is safe, you pledge to give up cake (けい), your favorite food. Would you pledge to give up cake to show everyone how serious you are about protecting life?
# | 刑 | Punish | けい | Lantern + Knife | Destroy a lantern with your knife and you'll be punished. Even if it was your own lantern, why stab it with a knife? You could have recycled that. I will punish you for lantern stabbing and pollution! I will punish you by taking away your cake (けい)! You'll never eat cake again. Not for birthdays, not for holidays. This is your punishment. The next time you want to stab a lantern with a knife, think about how good cake tastes and stop. Remember, DARE (Don't Attack Reusable Electronics)!
# | 募 | Recruit | ぼ ; つの | Greenhouse + Power | A greenhouse is the newest power of the city you decided to recruit. You’re trying to recruit all the buildings in town and the greenhouse was the next on your list. It adds just a little bit of power to the town, but it's important nonetheless. Imagine what you had to do to recruit this greenhouse. Imagine schmoozing with the previous greenhouse owners to recruit them to your cause and sell you the greenhouse. After you recruit the greenhouse, you recruit Bobo (ぼ) the clown to guard it for you. Bobo the clown has a terrifying amount of power so he’ll make an excellent guard for the greenhouse. Recruit Bobo the clown. Look at him. He’s terrifying. Bobo will make for a great deterrent for entry to your greenhouse.
# | 償 | Reparation | しょう ; つぐな | Leader + Prize | The leader presents you with a prize as reparation for his past deeds. This leader wronged you in the past and wishes to make amends. Therefore the leader presents you with a reparation in the form of a glittering prize. Imagine receiving your reparation prize. Feel the prize in your hand. It’s all wrapped up but it’s heavy and feels expensive. What could it be? The leader who presented you with this reparation is the Shougun (しょう) of Japan. He's trying to make up for all the threats he made to you and some of the things you saw (which he's now trying to cover up for). Imagine receiving your reparations from the Shougun himself. You're angry at him for threatening you, wounding people, and cutting off the heads of people who go against him, but you take it anyway.
# | 抵 | Resist | てい | Fingers + Clan + Ground | Everyone from your clan puts their fingers in the ground as a way to resist their lords. Your clan is made of a bunch of peasants, but you aren't going to work the land for other people anymore. You're going to resist. This is a protest! Your fingers work for no one but yourselves from now on! Imagine your entire clan putting their fingers in the ground in unison as a form of resistance. It's a moving sight. You're all resisting with your fingers in the ground, when the lords appear, angry. "You resist us by hiding your fingers with potatoes in the ground?! You want your fingers to be useless potatoes so badly? We'll chop them up and turn them into tater (てい) tots!" You make your choice to resist. He orders his guards to pull your fingers out of the ground, chop them into the size of tater tots, and then deep fry them. After they're done, the lord pops one in his mouth and says, "Oooh, resistance is delicious."
# | 戻 | Return | もど ; れい | Door + Big | This door is big and you need to return it to its rightful owner. This door is too big and important looking to not belong to someone. You need to find its owner and return it to them. Heft this big door in your arms. It’s very heavy. Feel your arms tire as you look for who to return the door to. You are in return mode (もど). When you enter this mode, you concentrate only on returning something. Nothing else matters in this mode. You’re in full on return mode. You’re obsessed with returning this big door. Once you enter this mode, the only way to get out is to return the thing you have.
# | 昭 | Shining | しょう | Sun + Call | The sun calls out to the earth by shining down on it. The sun doesn't have a voice, unfortunately, so it calls out the only way it can, with its shining rays. This shining is aimed directly at the Shougun (しょう). The sun is shining on the Shougun to not only show its support for his leadership, but to let him shine brighter than anyone else in Japan. Picture the Shougun standing in the shining sunlight. He's so bright and beautiful!
# | 絹 | Silk | きぬ ; けん | Thread + Mouth + Moon | Put thread in the mouth of a worm while the moon is out and it will poop out some silk. That's why they call them silkworms, didn't you know? But it has to be while the moon is out, otherwise normal thread will come right back out the other end of the worm. The moon is what makes the magic happen. Picture feeding some thread into the mouth of a worm as the light from the full moon shines in on you. See the silk come out of the worm's butt and into your hands. Wearing silk is the key (き) to not being nude (ぬ). Wear it! Picture yourself wearing nothing but silk. Silk shirt, silk pants, even silk underwear. It feels great against the skin! And most importantly, you're not nude.
# | 串 | Skewer, Spit | くし | Skewer | The skewer radical and the skewer kanji are exactly the same! Know your radicals, yo. Uh oh, this skewer is really... cushy (くし). It's so soft and cushy you can't get any meat or vegetables onto it. Imagine trying to use this cushy skewer. It's the right shape (long, thin, pointy at one end), but every time you try to put something on it it squishes in on itself like a long marshmallow.
# | 闘 | Struggle | とう ; たたか | Gate + Beans + Measurement | At this gate you're trying to get some beans through, but the measurements were off and you're starting to struggle. No matter how you push or pull these beans, they're just too big to get through the gate. "I'm really struggling here, I thought you said you measured these beans?" you ask the bean seller. "I did! I mean, I struggled with the measurements, I'm not very good at math..." Ugh. You continue to struggle because you need to get these beans to the other side of the gate and into とうきょう. You usually struggle a little when people want to bring things through the gate to とうきょう, but this is ridiculous. "How am I supposed to sell my beans if you struggle this much just to get them into とうきょう!" the bean seller shouts. It's making you struggle more, and beans start falling on your head, ripping their way out of their sack.
# | 執 | Tenacious | しゅう, しつ ; と | Happiness + Circle | Happiness is a circle that's tenacious. In other words, we're all in this circle/cycle where we do whatever we can to grab onto happiness and hold it as tightly as we can. Be tenacious about happiness in your life. No matter how many times it slips away, don't give up. Keep going after it, because it will absolutely come back if you're tenacious enough. Happiness is as tenacious as a shih tzu (しつ) with a shoe (しゅう). That little dog does not want to give up on the shoe, no matter what's happening around it. Will someone take the shoe sometimes? Yeah, but the shih tzu doesn't give up. That's how you need to be with happiness. Kids, be tenacious!
# | 跡 | Traces | せき ; あと | Foot + Red | Your foot is a little red and you can see traces of ink streaked on it. Where did these traces come from? You look closer at your foot, examining the traces of red ink, and slowly the night before comes back to you. Turns out the traces of red ink were from a sexy (せき) rave you were at last night. Everyone around you looked so sexy, with their glow-in-the-dark paint, so you decided to put some of the red ink on your feet so everyone could see your sexy dancing. As you feel the sexy, confident feelings return, you see traces of the ink on your carpet, all the way from the door to the bed. Dang it.
# | 削 | Whittle Down | さく ; けず | Triceratops + Moon + Knife | A triceratops with a moon knife can whittle down anything. Imagine the triceratops with its little moon knife, doing some whittling. Hand it anything and it will whittle it down. Everything it will whittle down shall be put in a sack (さく). Check out the sack that holds all the things that the triceratops whittled down. Go ahead and look through it, it's quite filled.
# | 伴 | Accompany | はん ; ともな | Leader + Half | A leader asks half of his men to accompany him on a secret mission. The leader’s mission is volunteer only, so it’s impressive that he got half of his men to accompany him. Imagine you are one of the leader’s men who volunteered. What made you want to accompany him? Imagine the good qualities of this leader and how he inspired you to accompany him on this mission. The leader you decided to accompany is none other than Han (はん) Solo. Who could be more inspiring? I’m surprised not more than half decided to accompany him. Han Solo is awesome. Imagine yourself as you accompany Han Solo. You try to stay calm, but you’re just so excited to be around Han Solo.
# | 齢 | Age | れい ; よわい | Tooth + Orders | You get tooth orders. You get these tooth orders various times in your life, depending on your age. You get baby age tooth orders (to get your first teeth). You get child age tooth orders (to get your adult teeth). Then you get old age tooth orders (when you start losing your teeth). There are tooth orders for every age. Gaining and losing teeth aren't the only things dependent on age. There is also an age in which you get your first ray (れい) gun. Decide what age you have to be to get your first ray gun, and then imagine getting it when you hit that age. Perhaps you use this ray gun on your teeth, to keep them clean. Hint: when you see the radical orders it's fairly likely the reading will be れい.
# | 宜 | Best Regards | よろ ; ぎ | Roof + Top Hat | By showing the roof of your top hat you send your best regards. Giving your best regards is basically just tipping your hat and showing the roof of it. When you give your best regards you always yell YOLO (よろ) to the other person. YOLO means "you only live once," so in a way that's a good way to give your best regards. At the very least, it's an interesting way.
# | 噛 | Bite, Chew | か, かじ | Mouth + Tooth | Your mouth has a tooth that you use to bite and chew with. Imagine that one tooth in your mouth chewing through everything. It's not easy to chew with only one tooth, but luckily yours is huge and razor-sharp, so it helps you to bite and chew your way through anything you like. Your one tooth is so strong that you can even use it to bite and chew up a whole  car (か). Some people like eating cars, and you're one of them. You can't get enough of those delicious cars. You just bite them apart and chew.
# | 賄 | Bribe | わい ; まかな | Shellfish + Have | The more shellfish you have, the more you can bribe people. That worked in the olden days when shells were money, and today too if the people you want to bribe really like seafood. Imagine bribing a bunch of yakuza and politicians with all the shellfish you have. Ohohoh, you'll never be caught! Welp, the cops found out about your bribe, that didn't last long, and now your entire family is watching you get put into the police car screaming, "WHY (わい)?! Yeah really, why? Why bribe people at all. You could have just been rolling in shellfish dough. Why risk everything? And you counter with. Why not?
# | 賂 | Bribe | ろ | Shellfish + Kiss | Someone is offering you a shellfish in exchange for a kiss. This is a bribe! You don't want to kiss them, but that shellfish sure looks tasty. "Come on, don't you want this shellfish?" they ask, shaking it up and down at you. You go through with the bribe and kiss the person, but then they snatch hold of the shellfish and run straight down the road (ろ). No!! This is why you never accept a bribe. One second you're staring a yummy shellfish in the face, and the next you're standing alone in the road feeling used.
# | 房 | Cluster | ぼう ; ふさ | Door + Direction | The door in that direction is among a cluster of doors. You run in the direction of the cluster and one door stands out to you. You enter it. Imagine seeing all these doors, this cluster of doors. You feel confused at which one to enter but finally pick one. Hear the door creak as you open it. After you make it through the door, you come across another cluster of doors. Which one to choose? There's a loud thunderous sound coming from behind one and you decide to open it. Behind it, there's an entire bowling (ぼう) alley and people bowling, loudly! Watch as clusters of pins fall when the bowling balls hit them. You back up and peek through one of the other doors in the cluster and it also houses a bowling alley. Huh.
# | 慮 | Consider | りょ ; おもんぱく, おもんぱか | Tiger + Think | A tiger needs to think and consider its actions before it attacks. Tigers are smart hunters, so they need to consider all options and really think through a situation. Look at this tiger as it approaches you. Think what things it has to consider. It has to consider how big of a threat you are and so on. You need to consider how you’re going to escape from this tiger. It's considering you for so long that it takes out a robe (りょ), a pipe, and an armchair and starts puffing away, staring intently at you. You didn't even know tigers could wear robes, but this one seems to use it to help itself think. Consider this! Tigers look great in robes.
# | 託 | Consign | たく ; かこ | Say + Slide + Seven | They say if you put things on a slide, seven things to be exact, that’s the best way to consign goods to someone. They say if you consign seven things to someone, you should send them over on a slide. Slide ‘em on down. All seven of ‘em. Imagine what seven things you consign over to this other person for safekeeping. Visualize them in your head as you slide each one down the slide. One of the seven things you consign over to this guy is a tack (たく). It’s the sharpest tack you’ve ever seen. You slide the tack down the slide. Good thing no one is on the slide now, sitting on that tack would hurt. Let’s imagine what it would be like to hit this tack while sliding on the slide. It would hurt. Good thing you are consigning it over to someone. Probably safer for everyone that way.
# | 却 | Contrary | きゃく ; かえ | Past + Stamp | Past stamps usually depict images contrary to current views. Look at this stamp. There's Columbus being hugged by a bunch of South American natives. Yikes, that's contrary to how things went, that's for sure. Don't be the type of person who acts contrary to how they should and instead be like Kyaku (きゃく) the customer. They're always so nice and polite and they don't give diseases to entire populations of people. Be contrary to the evildoers of the past and be like Kyaku instead.
# | 需 | Demand | じゅ | Rain + Rake | In the rain I take my rake and shake it, making a demand that the rain stop! I demand this rain stop right now! Don’t make me shake my rake more violently than I am currently shaking it! Go out into the rain and shake your rake. Imagine shouting your demand at the sky as the rain pelts you from above. Now imagine the rain changing. Wait a second, this isn't rain, it's juice (じゅ)! You shake your rake harder, and demand that the juice rain continues. It doesn't listen to your demands and stops as soon as you start bottling it. Well, at least you have enough for one, really small juice box. Picture yourself demanding more rain from the sky, trying to fill up your tiny juice box with what little juice rain you were able to get.
# | 璧 | Disc, Jade Disc | へき | Hot Pepper + King + Drop | You offer a hot pepper to the king, and he gives you a drop of something. You look down at the drop to see it transforming into a disc. And not just any old disc at that. It's a jade disc. Have you ever seen ancient Chinese jade discs with holes in the middle? That's what this kanji is referring to. You took a long time to pick out the perfect hot pepper. Only the best for the king, right? It burned your hands a little as you held it on your way to the palace. You were hoping for something pretty special in return, but you never imagined it would be a drop that magically turns into a disc. Wow! Wait, did a drop really just change into a disc? What the heck is (へき) going on? You start to realize just how crazy the situation is. Seriously. How the heck is a drop able to turn into a jade disc?
# | 致 | Do | ち ; いた | Mole + Winter | A mole in winter will do whatever you ask, if you know how to ask it. They do most of their own chores during the rest of the year, so winter is when you should ask them to do things for you. To get the mole to do what you want, just give it a nice big hunk of cheese (ち). Moles will do anything for cheese, but honestly, wouldn't we all?
# | 避 | Dodge, Avoid | ひ ; さ, よ | Scooter + Hot Pepper | You're on a scooter and suddenly someone throws a hot pepper at you and you have to dodge it. Imagine riding your scooter, dodging multiple hot peppers as they're tossed at you. A few of them get stuck in the wheels and keep coming around and around, and you have to dodge them too. As you dodge the hot peppers, you feel a strong heat (ひ) fill your body. You can't tell if this heat is from the effort from dodging or if you didn't dodge right and one of the hot peppers touched you. Or maybe the scooter is overheating. Feel the heat flow through your body. It's getting harder to dodge as the heat grows and you start sweating!
# | 描 | Draw | びょう ; か, えが | Fingers + Flowers + Rice Paddy | When you see flowers in a rice paddy you can't help but use your fingers to draw them. Have you ever seen rice paddy flowers? They're beautiful. And if you can draw them you can capture that beauty and show it to everyone. Imagine using your fingers to draw these rice paddy flowers. Don't worry about how well you can draw, this is so beautiful, anyone could capture it. Even though you tried to draw the flowers as best you could, whenever someone looks at it they smell B.O. (びょう). Maybe it's because you were drawing for a really long time and kept sweating. Maybe it's because you are just a stinky person. But no one wants to look at your drawing for long because all they can smell is B.O. To be fair, would you want to look at a drawing that makes you constantly smell stinky B.O.? I didn't think so.
# | 刊 | Edition | かん | Dry + Knife | You got your copy of "The Dry Knife." It's the newest edition of the magazine you love on keeping your knives dry. You're really into this magazine, and when you heard there's a new edition of it, you went out and bought it right away. In this edition of "The Dry Knife," there is a huge article written by Genghis Khan (かん) on how he kept his knives dry while campaigning. The article on Genghis Khan was perhaps the best written article in the Dry Knife series to date. How did this magazine get such a big interview?
# | 逃 | Escape | とう ; に, のが, の | Scooter + Omen | You use your scooter when the omen comes so that you can escape. Unfortunately, the omen is riding a scooter too, so you're going to have to be crafty to escape this omen properly. You decide to escape this omen by weaving in and out of the busy streets of とうきょう. By now, you know とうきょう like the back of your hand, so you're sure you can escape this way. Imagine scooting in and out of とうきょう traffic, the omen looming ever further back behind you. You're doing it! You're escaping!
# | 扱 | Handle | あつか ; きゅう | Fingers + Escalator | Where do you put your fingers when you're on an escalator? On the handle! Okay, so maybe it's not a handle and more of a railing, but for the sake of this kanji, picture a handle instead. Imagine being on an escalator and wrapping your fingers around a small handle on your way up or down. It's still a bit precarious, truth be told. You put your hand on the handle and an old person leans in close to you and says, "暑か?" (あつか). He wants to know if the handle is ... hot? Before you can respond he says it again, and again! “暑か？！ 暑か？！？！ 暑か？！？！？！” he's shouting as you slowly ride the escalator away from him. 暑か? Is the handle hot? Think about it. Is it? What does your imagination tell you?
# | 奥 | Interior | おく ; おう | Drop + Head + Rice + Big | If there’s a drop on your head and the rice is big, you know you’re in the interior. And by interior, I mean you’re actually inside someone. The rice is big because you’ve shrunk to a tiny size and are inside someone’s stomach. The drop on your head is actually digestive fluid. Imagine being in the interior of someone’s tummy. See the big pieces of rice all around you as drops of stomach fluid continue to drop down on your head. While you’re in the interior of this guy, you hear him break out in song. He starts singing “Oklahoma” (おく) at the top of his lungs. The big pieces of rice slosh around as he sings and dances. “OOOOk-lahoma, where the wind comes sweepin' down the plain!” If you’re unfamiliar with this Oklahoma song, check it out on YouTube. Imagine being in the interior of someone’s belly as you hear this song booming all around you.
# | 併 | Join | へい ; あわ | Leader + Horns + Lantern | A leader with horns takes a lantern and searches for people to join him. He needs more people to join his cause so he can get his horns removed. He’s embarrassed of them which is why he only travels at night, hence the lantern. Imagine this shady leader approaching you in the night. The lantern light shines in your face. Would you join him? The leader guy approaches you out of the darkness, his lantern held high. Oh no, not that guy. You've heard about his horn problem and you don't want to join him. You look around and spot a large haystack (へい). You quickly jump into it and hide from him. The last thing you wanted to do was join that guy so you hid in a haystack to avoid him.
# | 膝 | Knee | ひざ | Moon + Tree + Hat + Water | Under the moon beneath a tree there is a hat filled with water. You stare down into the water and decide to stick your knee in it. Feel the water splash over your knee as you stick it into this hat. It fits really well, the hat is the perfect size for your knee. Now look up at the moonlight filtering through the tree above. Suddenly, in your knee, you feel heat and a zap (ひざ)! Your knee is simultaneously burned and electrocuted by the hot water!! Imagine the heat then the zap going through your knee. It isn't a nice heat, it's a hot heat, then BZZZT zap! Your knee was heat zapped pretty bad.
# | 傾 | Lean | けい ; かたむ | Change + Geoduck | You change this geoduck because you want it to lean. Right now it's standing up straight, but you want it to lean to one side instead. Why do you want this geoduck to lean? Try to come up with your own reason. And why don't you look up what a geoduck looks like one more time for good measure. You don't want to be able to get this image out of your head. To get the geoduck to lean you put a piece of cake (けい) on one of its sides. Watch as the geoduck slowly leans toward the cake, trying to get at it for a taste. But don't let it eat any! Keep putting the cake further and further away so the geoduck has to lean more.
# | 緩 | Loose | ゆる ; かん | Thread + Football | The thread on this football is loose. We need to tighten up the loose thread on this football or it’s gonna fall apart while we’re playing. Look at this football. The thread is loose on the football and needs to be tightened. Attempt to tighten the loose thread on the football as you hold it in your hands. You finally tighten the loose thread and all of your friends cheer, “You rule!” (ゆる) You rule because you fixed the loose thread on the football and now you can play again. Yeah! You rule, man! Listen to your friends shouting “You rule!” and hear their cheers echo in your ears as you toss the football around again.
# | 奏 | Play Music | そう ; かな | Spring + Heaven | When it's spring in heaven they play music. To your mortal, human ears it sounds more like snow melting, birds chirping, and plants waking up. Close your eyes and imagine all of the spring sounds that come down to you from heaven in the springtime. Mmm, you can almost smell the damp soil and rain. In heaven, the ones that play music are the souls (そう) of the dead. They have a huge band up there, and even though it just seems like normal spring sounds to you, up there in heaven when the souls play music it's more like a huge, 100-part band! Picture all of the souls in heaven playing spring music together!
# | 娠 | Pregnant | しん | Woman + Landslide | A woman who has a landslide getting ready inside her is pregnant. And that baby is gonna come out like a landslide. Picture an ultrasound of the pregnant woman, but instead of a little baby heartbeat, you hear a scary roaring sound. That's what being pregnant is like. Waiting for the landslide to come. When you're pregnant the baby is constantly kicking you with their shins (しん). Not their feet, their shins. And shins are really hard, let me tell you. Imagine being pregnant and getting kicked by the shins of your baby all day, but especially all night. You're so tired. Please let this landslide come already.
# | 妊 | Pregnant | にん | Woman + King | A woman sleeps with the king and becomes pregnant. Only the king wasn’t human and now the woman is pregnant with a hybrid alien baby! The king radical is slightly altered in this kanji, so just remember that the king is a strange alien and not human. Imagine being this woman and having this half-breed alien baby inside you. Feels weird. Being pregnant with this strange creature, you need to do something to calm you down. You should play Nintendo (にん). Nintendo really calms your nerves and makes being pregnant with some mutant baby not seem like that big of a deal anymore. What game are you playing on the Nintendo? Maybe it’s a game where you kill alien invaders? That’s messed up.
# | 贈 | Presents | ぞう ; おく | Shellfish + Mask | You put on the shellfish mask once per year and break into people's beach houses, leaving behind presents. You're like beach santa, except you're real and you wear a mask made of shellfish. The "presents" you leave? They are actually just zombies (ぞう). You leave zombies in people's houses. Ooh hoo, it's me! the Shellfish Mask Man! I go to beach houses and leave presents where I can! The presents are not clothes, or anything good. I don't even care if you leave me some food. Try whipping some up, try cooking me peas, It matters not, I'll leave you zombies! Tee hee hee hee hee!
# | 択 | Select | たく ; えら | Fingers + Shrimp | Shove your fingers into a bowl of shrimp to select the best one. You know your shrimp and you know them well, so you won't settle for anything less than the best. Put your whole arm in there and feel around until you can select the one you want most. Feel your fingers touching each and every shrimp, one by one, until they graze the one you select as the perfect shrimp. Slowly pull it out and lower it into your mouth. Munch munch... ahhh! The perfect shrimp. You do this at every restaurant, party, and indoor sporting event and people start getting wise to your shrimp selection methods. One day, as you attempt to select your shrimp, a sharp pain shoots through your finger. Ow! You pull your hand back to find... a tack (たく)! Oh, woe is me! How will I select the perfect shrimp with my fingers if there are tacks in the shrimp bowls! Boohoohoo!
# | 還 | Send Back | かん ; かえ | Scooter + Net + Zombie | There's a scooter coming toward you with a net trapping a weird zombie on it. You don't want this here, so you decide to send back the zombie. (It's a weird zombie because it has the ground on top of its head instead of dirt!) You want to send back this zombie the way it came. You definitely don't want it loose in your neighborhood. As you prepare to send back the zombie, you imagine yourself as Genghis Khan (かん). On your horse (it's just your own scooter) you stab forward with your spear (stick), swing the scooter the zombie is on, and send it back from whence it came! You managed to send back the zombie, good for you! Genghis Khan would be proud.
# | 繰 | Spin | く ; そう | Thread + Syrup | You have thread and some syrup and you need to spin them together. Drip the syrup onto the thread and spin it around and around over your head. Imagine carefully dripping syrup onto a thread and then spinning it in a circle. As you spin the syrup, it begins to change shape and forms into a cookie (く)! Haven't you ever made syrup-spun cookies before? The spinning forms and cooks them in the air. Imagine eating a syrup cookie you made by spinning it yourself. Homemade is always better than store-bought.
# | 抑 | Suppress | よく ; おさ | Fingers + Cat Pirate | Use your fingers on the cat pirate to suppress him. The cat pirate was attacking you, so you took your fingers and pet his head and scratched his chin. Now he's calm and suppressed. He doesn't even remember why he was attacking you. Imagine suppressing a cat pirate with your own fingers. His fur is so soft, but his nails are so sharp! He forgot, but you know you had to suppress the cat pirate because he was trying to steal your egg yolk (よく). You were making breakfast on your ship and the cat pirate boarded you out of nowhere, and tried to take it by force. Defend the yolk! Smell the smell of eggs in the air as you suppress the cat pirate. Maybe even share the yolk with him, once he's done trying to kill you for it. And then enjoy breakfast while petting your new cat friend.
# | 懸 | Suspend | けん ; か | Prefecture + Lineage + Heart | In your prefecture, you come from a long lineage of people who share one heart. When the heart is passed on to the next in line, it flies out of their body, and suspends itself in the sky, for you to take. You see the suspended heart in the distance, and make your way towards it. You arrive at the suspended heart. There in front of it, protecting it, is Ken (けん) the samurai. "I've protected this suspended heart for you, for you are next in the lineage to receive it." He grabs the heart and throws it into your body.
# | 称 | Title | しょう ; とな, たた, ほめ | Grain + Gun + Small | You take a grain and fashion it into a gun that is small, earning you the title of Small Arms Dealer (or SAD). Congratulations! This isn't exactly a title you're proud of, in fact, you're really embarrassed. Maybe you can make a name for yourself in something else so you can get a new title. Word of your SAD title makes it all the way to the Shougun (しょう) and he travels out to see you. When he arrives at your door, with all of his fancy escorts, he hands you a plaque with your title on it. The plaque says, "No one is more deserving of this SAD title." - Love, the Shougun.
# | 緒 | Together | しょ, ちょ ; お | Thread + Someone | You thread someone together with thread. Someone is falling apart so you use thread to put them back together. Imagine taking some thread and putting someone back together with it. It’s awfully messy. I hope you’re good with blood. You’re threading this someone back together as part of a show (しょ). The show is a demonstration to show med students how to thread someone’s skin together after they have an accident. You’re the most experienced, so you’re leading the show. Imagine threading someone back together again, but this time you have an audience. Hear them “ooh” and “aah” as you put on a riveting show.
# | 盤 | Tray, Platter, Board | ばん | Boat + Weapon + Plate | Your boat holds your weapon like a plate. So in a way, it's just a tray for your weapon. A big boat shaped like a plate is just a tray. You keep your weapons on it, nice and flat. Unfortunately, this boat tray is so huge, it's gotten you banned (ばん) from the Small Boat Tray Association. Those pesky small boat tray enthusiasts... Your ban from the Small Boat Tray Association has led to a massive feud between large boat tray enthusiasts and small boat tray enthusiasts, and it seems like it'll never end—leading to bans all over the place. If only we could all come together as enthusiasts of boat trays of all sizes...
# | 控 | Abstain | ひか ; こう | Fingers + Sky | Raise your fingers to the sky to symbolize that you abstain from something. If someone offers you fur coats, raise your fingers to abstain. If someone tries to get you to bully someone, raise your fingers to abstain. Abstaining from doing what other people are doing is important sometimes. So make sure you never forget the universal abstaining symbol. This symbol to abstain comes from the hicatee (ひか) turtle. The hicatee is a Central American river turtle hunted for its meat, eggs, and shell. Therefore, the poor hicatee are endangered. So people started to rally around them, abstaining from hurting them anymore. They raised their fingers to the sky and shouted, "I abstain from harming these hicatee!" Picture yourself in Central America. Standing in the water, blocking poachers from the hicatee turtles. "Abstain!" you shout at them.
# | 宛 | Address | あて ; えん | Roof + Evening + Snake | On your roof every evening you meet with snakes. All snakes know your address. You're snake famous. Snakes go on a pilgrimage to your address every evening. Your address is passed down from snake generation to snake generation. The snakes come to your address every night to receive the greatest gift you can give a snake: a 手 (あて). "You only give a 手 a night. Newcomers might have a 手 or two, but some snakes who have been coming to your address for years have hundreds of 手s. They are human hands."
# | 充 | Allocate | じゅう ; あ, み | Allocate | The allocate radical and the allocate kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! If you allocate your funds correctly you'll be able to buy as many precious jewels (じゅう) as you want! However, jewels are expensive, so if you don't allocate any money, you won't be able to afford any. Ever. Picture all the jewels you were able to buy because you allocated your funds correctly. Imagine swimming in these jewels. Like a rich duck.
# | 渋 | Bitter, Astringent, Reluctant | じゅう ; しぶ | Tsunami + Stop + Explosion | There's a tsunami coming and you can't stop the explosion of bitterness in your mouth. You're scared. Your mouth tastes bitter and astringent. This word also means reluctant, because wouldn't you be reluctant to let a tsunami come wash you away with that bitter explosion of flavor in your mouth? You're reluctant to face this bitter end at the hands of a tsunami. With the bitter taste in your mouth, you reluctantly gather up all of your jewels (じゅう) and wait for the tsunami to take you away. At least with your jewels with you, there may be some hope of selling them and building a better life if you make it. Try to stuff some of the jewels into your bitter mouth before the tsunami stops you.
# | 岐 | Branch Off | き, ぎ | Mountain + Branch | A mountain branch will branch off from the rest. Picture this part of the mountain, branching off from the rest, into a mysterious path of its own. If you want to branch off from your hiking group and explore this branch of the mountain, you need a special key (き). Just don't get caught down there or you'll get the guillotine (ぎ). If you branch off from the beaten path, you need 1) access, and 2) to be really careful so you keep your head.
# | 鈴 | Buzzer, Small Bell | りん, れい ; すず | Gold + Orders | You take gold in exchange for executing orders to construct a buzzer. You are a small bell maker and someone orders you to make one into a buzzer in exchange for some gold. This is how you make a living. Imagine the gold, heavy in your pockets, as you construct this buzzer with your bare hands. Feel the cool metal clink around in your hands as you put it together. Finally the buzzer is done. You’ve earned your gold. You test the buzzer and it goes ring (りん)! Ring! Ring! Ring! Ring ring ring ring ring! Man, that ringing is annoying but hey, that’s what buzzers do. Wait, should this buzzer be buzzing or ringing? Oh well, you got your gold. It’s the client’s problem now.
# | 埼 | Cape | さい ; き | Dirt + Odd | There is something odd sticking out of the dirt. Oh wait, it's just the cape jutting out into the water below. Phew. It's just the cape sticking out into the sea. Haha, for a second... you thought... no... The cape below looks just like your cyborg (さい). Or rather, the cyborg you once had, before you had to give him up. It's kinda cross-shaped, it has a slide part, and lots of little fleshy bits. Ah, the memories. Picture the cape (the land mass that sticks out into water) but it's shaped just like your old cyborg. Weep a single tear.
# | 棋 | Chess Piece | き ; ご | Tree + Crab | A tree crab breaks into your games cabinet and steals a chess piece. He’s trying to impress all his tree crabs back home by showing how not afraid of humans he is. Plus the rest of the tree crabs need one last chess piece to complete their set. Imagine finding this tree crab in your games cabinet trying to make off with your chess piece. This tree crab is big and you weren’t expecting to find it in your games cabinet so you’re kind of terrified. You scream in horror. Before the tree crab can make it out with the chess piece, you shut the door to the games cabinet and lock it with a key (き), trapping the tree crab inside. Now what? You put the key in your pocket and call animal control. They unlock the cabinet with the key and remove the tree crab from your home. But who’s to say he won’t be back??
# | 囚 | Criminal | しゅう ; とら | Mouth + Person | Inside this giant mouth is a person, trapped, because they're a criminal. They did something bad (they touched the mouth of another person without consent) and now they're in mouth jail for criminals. Picture the criminal, trapped inside the mouth. They don't even look sorry! The criminal is only wearing shoes (しゅう). They're completely naked otherwise. They have to wear shoes because the mouth jail would be too slippery for them to stand otherwise. Wearing nothing but shoes is also really uncomfortable too, so it's actually part of the criminal's punishment. They don't seem to know that though.
# | 譲 | Defer | じょう ; ゆず | Say + Nurse | When you say "Nurse!" you're probably asking to defer to them in some way, shape, or form. There's many situations where you'd want to defer to a nurse, like when somebody is seriously hurt and you don't know what to do to help them. Just imagine yourself saying "Nurse!" in order to defer to them for their medical knowledge. The reason you’re trying to defer to a nurse is because you’re trying to save the local farmhand, Joe (じょう). He’s seriously injured, and you don’t know how to help him, so you’ll have to defer to the knowledge of a nurse. You’re starting to panick because you don’t know to help Joe, so you’re just going around saying “Nurse! Nurse!” repeatedly, desperately looking for someone you could defer to. Nurse!!!
# | 雇 | Employ | こ ; やと | Turkey + Door | Whenever a turkey comes in the door, you employ them. Imagine hundreds of turkeys walking in. The word has gotten out amongst the turkey community that if they walk through your door, you'll employ them. Although you employ turkeys, when a 子 (こ) walks through your door, you send them away. "I will employ turkeys, but I will never employ children!" you exclaim.
# | 免 | Excuse | めん ; まぬか | Excuse | The excuse radical and the excuse kanji are exactly the same! Dandy! Know your radicals, stop making excuses. Who always makes excuse after excuse? Men (めん)! They have an excuse for everything. Why didn’t you take out the trash? Why did you forget my birthday? It’s just excuse after excuse with men. So I’ve heard, anyway. Imagine all the men you’ve talked to in your life. Think of every excuse they’ve told you. Think of the worst excuse you’ve ever heard. Remember that.
# | 群 | Flock | ぐん ; む, むら | Buddy + Sheep | Your buddy the sheep is part of a flock. A flock of sheep. Your sheep buddy is a member of a flock. Imagine following your sheep buddy back to his flock. Feel the soft fur of all the sheep around you as they baa peacefully. Now take out your gun (ぐん) and murder every sheep in the flock. Except for your buddy. You’re incredibly jealous of your buddy and you don’t like the attention his flock gives him so that’s why you decided to murder them all with a gun. Feel the recoil of the gun in your hands and the ringing of the shots in your ears as you slaughter the flock without remorse. BANG BANG BANG!
# | 枠 | Frame | わく | Tree + Nine + Cross | In a tree on nine branches are some cross frames. Each cross frame is hung on the branches of the tree. You don’t know who decided to hang the frames there, but you think it might be some new wave art or something. Actually you need a frame, and there are already nine up there, so you decide to take one. Feel the tree bark under your palms as you climb up the tree to take a frame. You get a splinter from grabbing the frame. It really smarts. You realize that the frame isn't half as nice as you thought it was, in fact it's totally wack (わく). How disappointing. Why is this frame so wack? Think about what makes it wack, to help you remember this reading.
# | 銃 | Gun | じゅう | Gold + Allocate | You need to allocate enough gold to buy a gun. Guns are weapons of the old world, so you can't just buy them with paper money. Guns have to be bought with gold coins and slabs and bricks. Picture yourself handing over an armful of gold bars to buy a single gun. You need this gun so you can steal some jewels (じゅう)! Why didn't you just use your gold to buy the jewels, you ask? Because! That's not how we did things in olden days. When you want jewels you buy a gun with gold and rob a jewelry store! Picture an old fashioned hold up. You're holding a gun and shoveling jewels into a burlap sack. The heist of the century!
# | 仙 | Hermit | せん | Leader + Mountain | A leader who lives in a mountain is a hermit. The only thing this hermit is a leader of now is mountain goats. This hermit dislikes people so that’s why he lives in a mountain now. Imagine this odd hermit leading mountain goats around the mountain, marching to the beat of a drum. It’s a strange sight indeed. One day the hermit was leading the mountain goats around and he ran into a centaur (せん). The centaur said that he was the rightful leader of these mountain goats so the centaur challenged the hermit to a duel. Picture this old hermit fighting this centaur in a duel. Who do you think is gonna win? Hear the hermit screaming in agony as the centaur demolishes him.
# | 邦 | Home Country | ほう ; くに | Three + Slide + Building | There are three slides sticking out of this building that lead to your home country. The rest of the slides go to other places, but three are yours. Imagine standing at the top of the building and looking down at the three slides that stretch off toward your home country. It takes a few hours to slide all the way there, but at the end you'll be home. Your home country is your home (ほう)! Even if you move, even if you haven't been back in years, your home country will always be your home in some way, deep down.
# | 御 | Honorable | ご, ぎょ ; お, おん, み | Loiter + Gun + Correct + Stamp | You loiter around with a gun while your friend tries to correct a stamp to make it more honorable. Someone messed with the stamp machine and your friend is trying to correct the error. You’re loitering around with a gun since you’re his bodyguard. To have an error on the stamp would not be honorable, so that’s why your friend is going to correct it. Feel the weight of the gun in your hands as your friend works to make the stamp honorable again. Listen to your friend complain about how there are so few people left in the world that are honorable. Also keep in mind that the correct radical is a little different with the vertical line going through the top, so just think of that as the error trying to be corrected. Just as you’re pondering what it means to be honorable, your friend gets shot by Godzilla (ご). Godzilla must have been the one who ruined the stamp! "Go, go, save yourself, Godzilla got me!" your friend cries. You run, leaving your friend and Godzilla to their honorable battle. A single tear runs down your cheek.
# | 慎 | Humility | しん ; つつし | Soul + Reality | When someone wants to view the reality of your soul, show it with humility. Because the reality is... our souls are all a little dirty. And we haven't been the best versions we could be. So make sure when you show all of yourself you do so with some humility. Focus on the feeling of humility here. You're putting it all out there, you know? With nowhere to hide. As humility washes over you, you feel a shaking in your shins (しん). Humility lives in your shins, so now they're shaking and trying to bring you down to the ground. Imagine humility literally moving through your shins. Can you still stand or do you need to fall to your shins, in humility?
# | 躍 | Leap | やく ; おど | Foot + Wolverine + Turkey | You use your foot to kick Wolverine in the face so a turkey can leap to freedom. This turkey is trying to escape from Wolverine by leaping over a fence. Wolverine doesn’t want the turkey to escape, but you kick him with your foot and the turkey is then free to leap to safety. Imagine kicking Wolverine in the head with your foot as the turkey makes turkey sounds in the background. He’s taller than you so you must leap as you kick. After you kick Wolverine and the turkey is safe, you leap onto a yak (やく) to make your getaway. This yak is really fast so you’ll have no problem outrunning Wolverine while riding it. Leap! Leap onto the yak. Feel the yak fur beneath you as you ride away to safety, wind in your hair.
# | 謙 | Modesty | けん | Say + Mona Lisa | They say Mona Lisa had more modesty than any other woman at the time. Leonardo da Vinci picked her for her modesty. She's so modest she shows no emotion. The modesty of Mona Lisa inspired Ken (けん) the samurai to become more modest. Have you met Ken the samurai in person? He never smiles, and will never show you his emotions. He's too modest for that.
# | 阜 | Mound | ふ | Drop + Bear + Cross | A drop of rain falls on a bear leaning up against a cross stuck into a mound. The drop wakes the bear up and he rolls down off the mound. After the bear rights himself, he assumes that the cross pushed him off the mound so he charges into the cross atop the mound and knocks it over. Imagine this whole scene. A drop of water rouses the bear and he becomes enraged after he rolls down the mound. Hear the bear roar with anger as he charges up the mound and violently smashes the cross into the ground. Once the bear fully wakes up he realizes that he just rolled down the mound on his own and the cross was not to blame. What a fool (ふ) this bear was. He knows it too. The bear feels pretty foolish. Now look at the bear sitting atop the mound with his head in his paws, looking like a fool filled with regret. This bear feels like a fool for attacking the cross like he did.
# | 片 | One Sided, Fragment | かた ; へん | One Sided | The one sided radical and the one sided kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! Think of anything that is one sided. A battle. A sports game. A relationship. What makes them so one sided? One side always has a catapult (かた). Imagine a one sided situation that you've had. Now imagine the winning side with a catapult. For example, a baseball game where one team is destroying the other. That's because instead of a pitcher, they have a catapult.
# | 項 | Paragraph | こう | Construction + Geoduck | Construction for geoducks doesn't require as much paperwork as construction for humans, but you still need to write at least a paragraph to explain what you're doing. Actually imagine yourself writing one paragraph of explanation to the city so you can get the permits to construct housing for your geoducks. On the form, it specifies you should only write a paragraph. You turn in your paragraph, and it is given to Emperor こういち, who insists on being involved in all construction projects. Surprisingly, he approves your construction project, thanks to that paragraph you wrote in the application. In that paragraph, you praised こういち for being a great emperor, and you said that this construction project would help you to have more time to do your WaniKani reviews. Clearly you were pandering to Emperor こういち when you wrote it. But hey, it worked! Hint: When you see 工 in a kanji it will often take the こう reading.
# | 斐 | Patterned | い, ひ | Criminal + Writing | Criminal writing is always patterned. That is to say, there is a pattern to it, lots of ARGS and GONNA STAB YAs, but it's also patterned beautifully, with a collage of cut out letters. Can you see the patterns in the writing this criminal did? It looks like a quilt or some plaid. It's almost beautiful, the way those death threats are arranged! As you look closer at the patterned writing you realize that it forms the shape of an eagle (い). The most American bird of them all! Maybe this guy isn't a criminal after all! Picture an eagle patterned out of cut out letters. What the words say isn't important (though it is asking for a ransom on your grandma), but the underlying image is gorgeous.
# | 隆 | Prosperity | りゅう | Building + Winter + Life | A building in winter will allow life to have prosperity. Before we had buildings it was impossible to have any prosperity in winter because everything was cold and most of us died. Picture a dark, bleak winter landscape. No life anywhere. Now turn around and look at the prosperity on display in the building you're in. Everyone is happy and eating food and not freezing to death. This prosperity isn't good for everyone though. You look over and see Ryu (りゅう) from Street Fighter sitting in the corner. He's got everything he could ask for. He's won the tournament, he's got money, he's got this nice big building, but now he's depressed. Ryu's prosperity has made him realize that having things isn't always enough. Now he's looking wistfully outside at the winter weather, missing the rough times.
# | 圏 | Range, Sphere | けん | Mouth + Scroll | Your mouth contains a scroll, which you pull out and look at. On the scroll is a map, showing the range of the sphere of your mouth. On the map, there is a circle drawn around your mouth showing what range your mouth exists in. Thankfully, your tongue and teeth are within that sphere. Looking at the range of your mouth on the map, you notice a tiny samurai marked near your molars. It is Ken (けん) the samurai. Everything else on the map was accurate, so you take a close look in the mirror, and there he is: a tiny Ken the samurai, protecting the range that is your mouth. He gives you a small nod and goes back to his post.
# | 拒 | Refuse, Refusal | きょ ; こば | Fingers + Giant | Show your fingers to a giant to show you refuse him. Giants are very big. So big that when you talk they can't really hear what you're saying. Hold up all your fingers so that he can see what you mean. Imagine holding up your fingers to show a giant you're refusing to let him do something. Yeesh, you're brave! What do you refuse? You refuse to let him stomp all over Little Kyoto (きょ). Little Kyoto is your home! And if the giant comes any closer he's going to destroy all the little buildings and shrines and soba noodle shops. Imagine standing in front of a giant, refusing to let him crush Little Kyoto. I hope he doesn't stomp on you instead.
# | 稲 | Rice Plant | いね, いな ; とう | Grain + Cleat + Former | The grain stuck in your cleat had a former life. In that life it was a rice plant. It was a happy little rice plant, minding its own business, when it was yanked up and cleaned up and put in a bag for people to buy and cook and eat. That was so long ago. Now it's just a sad grain in the bottom of your shoe. When you look at a grain of rice, you should think of its former life as a rice plant, not where it ended up. The grain of rice, as it thinks about its rice plant life too, mutters, "いな、いね." Yes little grain, it was a really nice life. I'm sorry. You decide to bring the grain back to where all of the other rice plants are, and they all chant いな、いね as you return it to its home. You did a good thing today.
# | 奪 | Rob | うば ; だつ | Big + Turkey + Measurement | A big turkey has to measure a safe before he can rob it. If the safe is too big it won’t fit in his getaway van and the robbery will have been a failure. So before the turkey robs the place he needs to measure the safe. Imagine this turkey as he tries to rob this safe. See him with the tape measure as he determines whether or not the safe is too big. The safe that the turkey is trying to rob ends up being uber (うば) big. Like, really uber big. So uber big that the turkey can’t even measure it with his tape measure. There’s no way he’s gonna be able to rob this place. Imagine the size of this uber big safe. What could be inside? Probably something good.
# | 鋼 | Steel | こう ; はがね | Gold + Hill | You come across a gold hill. You think you hit it big! You start digging, only to find out that it is merely a paper-thin layer of gold covering a hill of steel. Dig out many other spots. Every time, it's just steel under there. You report your findings about the steel you found to Emperor こういち. He is displeased that it is a hill of steel. "I suppose I can use this steel, even if it is not a hill of gold," he says. "We will make steel weapons, which we will use to subjugate other nations. The whole world will learn kanji using the WaniKani system!"
# | 甲 | Turtle Shell, A | こう, かん ; か | Turtle Shell | The turtle shell radical and the turtle shell kanji are exactly the same! Oddly, this can also be used to talk about the first item in a list, so to mean A out of A through D, for example. Cowabunga! You get an A! With a turtle shell on his back, imagine こういち. Because this is WaniKani, こういち has probably set the turtle shell on fire, too. "Burn those turtle shells, burn those kanji!" he yells.
# | 虚 | Void | きょ, こ ; むな | Tiger + Spikes | A tiger, clad in spikes, exists in the void. This tiger is from another dimension where tigers rule the earth, clad in armor with spikes. The void has allowed this tiger to cross dimensional planes. Tigers are pretty intimidating just on their own, let alone with spikey armor. Imagine this tiger, covered in spikes. It’s roaring at you. Pretty scary, huh? The aforementioned void has opened up in Little Kyoto (きょ). The spiked void tigers chose to come here in order to face off against the Hanshin Tigers baseball team in battle. It will be a vicious match here in Little Kyoto. Since this is taking place in Little Kyoto and not Japan itself, the Hanshin Tigers won't have the home field advantage. Who will win? Picture this grand match taking place in Little Kyoto. Actual tigers versus the Hanshin Tigers. It’s truly a sight to behold. The void tigers are armed with their spikes and the Hanshin Tigers are armed with their bats. Hear the crack of wood and the roar of tigers in the air as the battle commences.
# | 壁 | Wall | かべ ; へき | Dirt + Hot Pepper | There are hot peppers hiding in this dirt, so you build a wall to protect yourself from them. Have you ever stepped on a really hot pepper? The oils bleed into your shoes and burn your feet! You don't want anyone stepping on these so you wall them up. Picture yourself walking around and seeing a wall around some dirt. You look inside and there are some hot peppers hiding just below the surface. Phew! Good thing this wall was here to protect you from them. On the other side of this wall there are much less threatening cobs (かべ) of corn. Corn isn't spicy. It's delicious and sweet, so it's free from being walled in. Picture some corn cobs. Now picture some hot peppers. Put a wall between them.
# | 祉 | Welfare | し | Spirit + Stop | When a spirit stops protecting you, you'll have to go on welfare. If you can't rely on your family spirit, you'll have to have the help and protection come from somewhere else. The next time you see someone on welfare, be nice. Their spirit stopped protecting them, so they need a little more help right now. While on welfare, you have to do the only job available to you: herding sheep (し). Sheep can help you out when you're having a rough time. Sheep provide warmth, wool for clothes, and even food, if you wanna get dark about it. If you've ever been on welfare you probably already know about the sheep.
# | 拉 | Abduct, Pull | ら | Fingers + Stand | Your fingers have to stand up straight, to protect you from being abducted, or pulled away against your will. You're convinced someone is trying to abduct you, so you need to keep your fingers standing at all times, ready to defend yourself. Your fingers are feeling pretty stiff, but you still keep them standing, just in case. Suddenly, someone really is trying to abduct you. They're pullling you away. It's the ancient Egyptian god Ra (ら). Help! Luckily, your fingers were standing to attention and you were able to fight off the mighty Ra. He won't try to abduct you again in a hurry. Thank goodness for those standing fingers.
# | 敏 | Alert | びん | Every + Winter | Every winter you are alert for danger. Everyone knows that the worst monsters come out in the winter so you need to be alert if you want to survive. Imagine yourself out in the winter wilderness. You hear twigs snapping, growling, leaves rustling. You’re incredibly alert and aware of everything going on around you. Being the alert fellow you are, you hear a sasquatch approaching and dive into a trash bin (びん) to hide. The bin smells really bad and you are keenly alert to all the various stenches and smells currently penetrating your nostrils, but at least you are safe. Listen to the sasquatch rumble on by as you continue to smell the smelly smells of this putrid bin you’re in.
# | 吹 | Blow | ふ ; すい | Mouth + Lack | You attempt to expel wind out of your mouth but lack the breath to blow out any. You’re using your mouth and trying to blow out some air, but you are failing to do so. Blow some air out of your mouth. It’s easy, right? Imagine what could cause you to fail at this activity. You silly fool (ふ), the reason you couldn’t blow any air out of your mouth is because your hand was over it. You can’t blow air out that way. You silly fool, you. Attempt to blow air out of your mouth while covering it with your hand. It’s hard to do, right? Only a fool would try to blow air out of their mouth this way.
# | 唱 | Chant | しょう ; とな | Mouth + Sun | It's time to do the mouth sun sun chant. That's when you use your mouth to chant sun sun, sun sun, sun sun, over and over until the sun appears. Open your mouth and practice the chant right now! Sun sun, sun sun, sun sun! You're doing this chant because the Shougun (しょう) ordered you to. The sun hasn't been shining on him as much lately, and he's displeased. So now you have to chant for him. The Shougun is glaring intently at you as you chant. Open your mouth as wide as you can, get all those "sun suns" out, and pray that the sun will appear.
# | 衝 | Collide | しょう ; つ | Go + Heavy | If you try to go somewhere but you're too heavy you'll collide with everything. Cars, people, houses. You're too heavy to dodge them, so you collide with it all. Imagine being too heavy to go anywhere without colliding with things. You're going around the town, you collide with a bunch of things, when all of a sudden you collide with the Shougun (しょう)! Oh no! The shogun looks really mad. The Shougun is glaring at you from the ground. "You've been colliding with my entire city and now you collide into ME?!" Smoke blows out his nostrils.
# | 戒 | Commandment | かい ; いまし | Drunkard + Twenty | The drunkard issued twenty commandments to his people. He basically just made up a bunch of commandments to order all the other drunkards around and decided having twenty (twice the amount of that other religion he heard about) would be a good number. The drunkard is yelling out his twenty commandments to the others at the bar, but they're all about kayaks (かい). Commandment 1: Thou shalt not touch my kayak. Commandment 2: Thou shalt not look at my kayak. Commandment 3: Thou shalt give me beer to put in my kayak It goes on like that for a while...
# | 兼 | Concurrently | けん ; か | Mona Lisa | The Mona Lisa is in front of you. "You must all paint the Mona Lisa concurrently," says your art class teacher. Pay close attention to the students around you. Don't go too fast or too slow, or you won't finish concurrently. Your entire class finishes concurrently. You look at your finished result. Wait, that's not the Mona Lisa. You painted Ken (けん) the samurai. It's a nice painting, the frown is just right, and you finished concurrently with everyone else, but you're probably going to fail this class.
# | 薄 | Dilute | はく ; うす | Flowers + Tsunami + Drop + Specialty | The flowers are being worked upon by a tsunami with a drop specialty: this tsunami can dilute flowers with just one tsunami-powered drop of itself. That’s its specialty. Look at the flowers as the tsunami begins to dilute them with just one drop. Their color and fragrance and dimensions become weaker and more spread out. It’s really trippy to witness. You watch the flowers become diluted with just one drop, and realize that this is a nature hack (はく). You’ve never seen anything like this before, so you think the tsunami found out how to hack nature and that’s how it got so good at diluting things. By hacking nature. As you continue to watch the tsunami's drop of water dilute the flowers, imagine what techniques this tsunami is using to hack nature. Is the tsunami a sinister being from the future? Maybe.
# | 堀 | Ditch | ほり ; くつ | Dirt + Flag + Exit | When you're driving, you may notice the flags in the dirt near the exits. These flags mark the ditch running along the side of the road. You won't want to try to exit the road here or you'll end up stuck in one. Picture the flags in the dirt. Picture the ditch just over the edge of them. Now look for another way to exit this road, cause that way is just not a good idea. If you do end up veering into a ditch you'll find yourself yelling, "Holy (ほり) crap!" Then you'll go hurtling into the ditch. It's a pun, get it? Holy. Hole-y. The ditch is a long hole. See? It's funny.
# | 剤 | Dose | ざい | Simultaneous + Knife | Simultaneously, you throw your knife at another person who's throwing a knife at you and you both get a dose of your own medicine. Literally, there's poison on these knives and now you've both been stabbed. Watch as the dose of poison sinks into your body through the knife that's in your chest, as it simultaneously happens to the other guy too. "I need a dose of the antidote!" you yell, and the other guy looks you dead in the eyes. They slowly pull a tiny xylophone (ざい) out of their pocket, play a few notes, and then eat it. "Ah, you'd like a dose of the xylophone cure, wouldn't you?" Now you're begging them for a dose of the xylophone drug. Just a taste, you want to live!
# | 雅 | Elegant | が ; みや | Fang + Turkey | A fang on a turkey is elegant. Most turkeys do not have fangs, so this turkey with a fang is quite elegant and dignified. This turkey is special. Look at this turkey with a fang. It’s elegant, but also frightening. See the fanged turkey staring at you menacingly. This elegant fang makes the turkey look more like a gargoyle (が) than a turkey. In fact, you haven't seen it move at all. Maybe it is just an elegant gargoyle! Picture this elegant gargoyle sitting in front of you. Reach out your hand and feels its hard, elegant stone gargoyle body.
# | 排 | Emit, Expel | はい | Fingers + Criminal | The fingers are where criminals emit or expel all of their bad energy from. Picture a criminal’s fingers, and all of the bad energy just oozing out of them, almost like an exhaust pipe emitting toxic fumes. Then you realize what the fingers are actually emitting: terrible, awful haiku (はい). Imagine this criminal's fingers emitting god-awful, cringe-inducing haiku after haiku. Really feel your skin crawl at the shoddiness of this criminal's fingers' haiku.
# | 孝 | Filial Piety | こう | Teacher | Teachers are all around us. Those who came before us are our teachers, so it's important to respect them. This is the basic idea of filial piety. Respect your elders, for they have much to teach us. With filial piety in mind, you decide to go visit your father, who is こういち. I am so ignorant and have much to learn. I must show filial piety to my father, こういち, so that he may teach me.
# | 頻 | Frequent | ひん ; しき | Walk + Geoduck | You walk by a geoduck a frequent amount. This geoduck really intrigues you, so you can’t help but frequent the area the geoduck is in and walk around. Imagine walking around near this geoduck. This is the best area to frequent when you want to look at the geoduck. Just keep looking at it as you walk. Apparently Hindu people also love geoducks because Hindu (ひん) people frequent this area quite often as well. You always see the geoduck here, but also a lot of Hindu people. Look at all the Hindu people as you walk around and observe the geoduck. Hear them all speaking Hindi as you continue to walk around.
# | 駆 | Gallop | か ; く | Horse + District | A horse goes to his favorite district to gallop around. This district has lots of cool buildings and lights to look at, so this horse loves to gallop around there. Hear the horse clip clopping around the district as it continues to gallop. Clip clop, clop clip clop! Then the horse gallops into the road and gets hit by a car (か). Oh man, there’s blood everywhere. This horse is never going to gallop again. That car totally destroyed it. The tires screech, the horse neighs, BAM! Total destruction everywhere. Bystanders scream in horror. That horse will never gallop again. It’s a sad day for all horsekind.
# | 俊 | Genius | しゅん | Leader + Spider | The leader of all the spiders is a genius! Spiders are already pretty smart. They can weave complex homes and traps in one web. They even know where not to step so they don't get caught. But the leader knows everything. It made itself a little webbed computer and everything! Imagine seeing the leader of the spiders weaving it's own little spider computer. Doing spider math, and spider chemistry. It's a genius! As you watch the spider genius you realize that soon (しゅん) spiders will take over the humans. They're just way smarter than us. Soon we'll be the bugs. Soon we'll be slaves to the genius spiders. Soon we'll be the flies.
# | 嬉 | Glad, Happy | き ; うれ | Woman + Rejoice | A woman is rejoicing. She must be glad and happy to rejoice out loud in front of you like this. Picture a woman rejoicing loudly. She's got a big smile on her face and she wants you and everyone else to see how glad she is. "I'm so glad!" the woman shouts, "Because I found the key (き)!" You immediately start to wonder what "the key" is. The key to life? The key to learning Japanese? Then you see she's holding up some car keys. You'd be happy too if you'd just found your lost keys. Though maybe you wouldn't shout it for the entire world to hear.
# | 誉 | Honor | よ ; ほ | Grass + Ground + Fins + Say | There’s grass on the ground and the fins there say you have no honor. The fins are left over from the fish you dismembered and they do not believe it was an act of honor. Now they are just sitting on the ground on the grass, calling you out for having no honor. Listen to what the fins have to say as they flop around on the ground in the grass. Hear them swish about as they flop, brushing up against the blades of grass. Being one of little honor, you decide to squash these vocal fins with your yo-yo (よ). You take out your yo-yo and start bashing each fin with it until they stop talking about what little honor you have. Imagine taking your yo-yo out to do this. Feel the string tighten around your finger as you unleash the yo-yo and silence all the fins.
# | 茂 | Luxuriant | も ; しげ | Flowers + Slide + Drunkard | You take flowers down a slide to a drunkard that you picked from your luxuriant garden. You picked the flowers from the luxuriant garden, not the drunkard, mind you. Also the drunkard has a cane, but not flowers. That’s why you picked some from your luxuriant garden and slid down your cool slide. Now the drunkard has a cane and some flowers. Imagine picking these flowers from your luxuriant garden then shooting down the slide. There are so many flowers that you are simply overwhelmed by their aroma. Now hand your flowers to the drunkard and watch his face light up as he excitedly thanks you for the gift. The drunkard is so happy to receive flowers from your luxuriant garden that he begins to moan (も) with pleasure. The moans are getting louder and more erotic. You’re kind of creeped out. You really want him to stop moaning. Hear the drunkard moan as he rubs the flowers all over his body. You’re really weirded out. This is the last time you give him flowers from your luxuriant garden, that’s for sure.
# | 殿 | Milord, Lord | でん ; との, どの | Flag + Together + Weapon | Under the same flag, all the people get together to present a new weapon to your lord. You all bow and say, "Milord, this gift is for you." Because that's the proper way to address your lord. When you address your lord you better say "milord," otherwise you might get beheaded with the weapon you're all giving him. As you give the lord his weapon together, you see his face turn into a frown, "What's wrong, Milord?" you ask. "THERE'S A DENT (でん)!" he bellows. Oh no, oh no, oh no! Now the lord is running around with his dented weapon trying to put dents in all of you. You don't want a dent in your head! Run!
# | 殖 | Multiply | しょく ; ふ | Yakuza + Fix | When you go to the yakuza to fix your problems they'll just multiply. You thought you had problems before? Yikes, now you've done it. The yakuza are just going to make all of your problems multiply! Just like I said, your problems multiply before your eyes and give you quite a shock (しょく). You really shouldn't be shocked though, because I warned you this would happen. Feel shock envelop your entire body as late payments multiply into more debt, and the number of people mad at you multiply too. You can't even think from the shock of it all.
# | 隣 | Neighbor, Neighbour | りん ; となり | Building + Rice + Dance | Inside that building someone is doing a rice dance. That someone is your neighbor. Imagine your neighbor doing a rice dance, whatever that may be, in the building next to yours. That's your neighbor, for ya. Your neighbor has an incredible ring (りん) that they use for their rice dance. Imagine the ring your neighbor has as overly extravagant. You have to make it wild enough for you to remember. Maybe it is integral to their rice dance. Perhaps you covet your neighbor's rice dance ring.
# | 麺 | Noodles | めん | Wheat + Face | One way to put wheat in your face is with noodles. Imagine yourself shoveling piles of wheaty noodles into your face. They're so wheaty and delicious! Once you're done stuffing noodles in your face, you can use your leftover noodles to make noodlemen (めん). Did you ever use to make pictures with your food? (Or maybe you still do? We won't judge.) Imagine you're doing that again, and think about how lifelike your noodle men are!
# | 繁 | Overgrown | はん ; しげ | Every + Winter + Thread | Every winter the thread fields become overgrown. Yes, thread grows in fields these days. And the thread grows the most in the winter because reasons. The thread gets so overgrown that you can’t even walk through it without cutting the thread down with a machete. Imagine trying to wade through this overgrown field of thread. It’s really difficult, and also it’s really cold because it’s winter. You shiver. Imagine chopping the thread down with your machete. Chop chop chop! The reason this field of thread got so overgrown is because you’re Han (はん) Solo and you’re not used to simple things like farming thread. Han Solo is used to blasting baddies and kissing princesses. Overgrown thread is not his specialty. Use your blaster to clear a way through this thread instead of using that machete. Imagine yourself as Han Solo, bravely blasting your way through the overgrown thread with your blaster. Pew pew pew!
# | 巡 | Patrol | じゅん ; めぐ, まわ | Scooter + Flood | You're using your scooter to navigate the flood because you're on patrol. You're one of the few people with a floating scooter, so it's your job to patrol the flood waters and look for people and animals that need help. Imagine patrolling the flood waters on your scooter, which is bubbling and scooting along on the surface of the water. You have to be extremely vigilant in your patrol, you don't want any lives to be lost on your watch. You have to patrol all of the floods in June (じゅん). Unfortunately, that's the month when most of the floods in Japan happen, so you end up on patrol a lot. You're in a group with a bunch of other scooter people, and you're all assigned to one month of flood patrol duty. But you got June. The floodiest month. Womp womp.
# | 柱 | Pillar | ちゅう ; はしら | Tree + Master | This tree is the master of a pillar. The pillar is subservient to its tree master because the tree is so great and awesome and big and cool and stuff. The pillar has great respect for its tree master. See the pillar next to the tree master. See the pillar bow over and over in veneration of its tree master. While bowing, the pillar accidentally smashes Chewbacca (ちゅう). The pillar is horrified for having murdered Chewbacca, his tree master’s closest friend. The pillar is going to be punished. Hear the crack and snap of branches as the tree beats the crap out of the pillar for having murdered Chewbacca. Unforgivable.
# | 携 | Portable | けい ; たずさ | Fingers + Turkey + Stairs | Use your fingers to shoo a turkey down the stairs and into a portable carrier. You've been trying to get this turkey into the carrier so you can transport it for like, the past hour. You finally got it done with the help of gravity. And, you know, smacking it a bit in the butt with your fingers. Turkeys aren't portable on their own. I mean you could pick one up I guess, but it will bite and poop on you. So get it in a portable carrier first. You needed the turkey to be more portable because you're going to be bringing it to a cake (けい) shop to turn it into a cake. You aren't cooking it! Geez, what's wrong with you? No, you're making a cake OF it, for its birthday. The baker needs to see it for reference. Imagine getting a portable turkey cake made of your pet turkey. It's made of turkey friendly cake mix.
# | 褒 | Praise | ほう ; ほ | Lid + Preserve + Kick | Lift the lid off your preserves, kick it, and praise the lord! Your food is preserved, you don't need the lid anymore, praise be! You also praise the lid. And praise the plants and animals that gave you the food. You do this praising in your home (ほう), though, not a church. I don't think anyone outside your home would understand why you're praising inanimate objects. If you're going to praise the ingenuity of the invention of the "lid" for its preservation methods, you should definitely do it from home. Or at least from the internet from home. Find your people where you can, you know?
# | 駐 | Resident | ちゅう | Horse + Master | A horse is your master and you are merely a resident in his house. How did this horse become your master? Those aren’t questions a resident should ask! Know your place, resident! Imagine having a horse as your master. Hear him neigh out orders to you and the other residents of the horse master’s house. To prove yourself a worthy resident of the horse master’s house, you must capture Chewbacca (ちゅう). Your horse master collects rare creatures, and Chewbacca is his latest desire. If you wish to remain a resident of the house, you must capture Chewbacca. Imagine Chewbacca in a cage in the horse master’s house. You’ve proved yourself a worthy resident. Hear Chewbacca making his Wookie sounds as he bashes against the bars of his new cage.
# | 顧 | Review | こ ; かえり | Employ + Geoduck | You employ a geoduck to review all your work. Imagine hiring a geoduck, then ask them to review your work. Please review my writing, geoduck. Please review my record-keeping, geoduck. Please review my taxes, geoduck. This geoduck you employed can review anything for you. As the geoduck reviews your paperwork, it notices something surprising. You have a 子 (こ)! The geoduck tells you that while it was reviewing your records, it found information about a child you have. Even you didn't know this, so you're surprised that this review geoduck found something like this.
# | 犠 | Sacrifice | ぎ | Cow + Righteousness | The cow of righteousness is always there for us. He is the cow that must sacrifice himself for us to survive. The reason he is sacrificing himself is so we can all eat! Yum! Thanks to your sacrifice, righteous cow, we all have hamburgers. You should think about all the cows you ask to die for you every day. Maybe say thanks next time. The sacrifice must be done via guillotine (ぎ). I know, I know, that sounds really brutal, but it's the best way. It's fast, it's effective, and hopefully the sacrifice—I mean, cow—doesn't feel a thing. Of course, the reading is also shared with kanji like 義. The righteousness radicals seems to have that effect on kanji.
# | 獲 | Seize | かく ; え | Animal + Flowers + Turkey + Stool | You see an animal with some flowers and a turkey on a stool trying to seize them. The animal with the flowers is really tall so the turkey needs to stand on the stool in its attempt to seize the flowers. Look at this turkey straining itself on the stool trying to seize the flowers, grunting with effort. You think he’ll ever get them? The animal the turkey is trying to seize the flowers from is a cock (かく). The cock is a lot bigger than the turkey, so that’s why the turkey needs to stand on the stool in its attempt to seize those flowers. Imagine this scene again only with a big cock holding the flowers as the turkey attempts to seize them. Hear the cock shouting cock-a-doodle-doo as it defends its flowers.
# | 鋭 | Sharp | えい ; するど | Gold + Guard | If you have gold you also need a guard with a very sharp sword to protect it. You should probably also get some sharp spikes, sharp traps, and sharp spears to keep that gold safe too. Just a bunch of sharp stuff. You're setting up all these sharp traps around your gold when you step on a sharp acorn (えい) that's just lying on the floor. Ouch! But wait, then you get a great idea! Imagine covering the floor around your gold in sharp acorns. This is basically a Home Alone situation, and anyone who tries to steal your stuff is gonna get stuck full of sharp things and probably stabbed by your guard.
# | 敷 | Spread | しき, し ; ふ | Drop + Cross + Rice Paddy + Direction + Winter | Taking a cross with a drop on it, you walk through the rice paddy in the direction of winter and spread your arms wide. You spread your arms to halt the approach of winter because your rice paddy is not done growing yet. You take the cross with you for some extra religious power of persuasion, and the drop in case any of that rice is thirsty. Imagine facing the direction of the approaching winter while facing away from the rice paddy. Feel the weight of the cross in your hands as you spread your arms and implore the winter to hold off on its arrival. Drip the drop onto any thirsty rice. You're extremely chic (しき), which makes the fact that you're holding a cross while you spread your arms even more impressive. Side note: The official kun'yomi reading is just し but since far more words use しき, we're focussing on that here. It includes the okurigana, which is now included in the kanji in compounds. Feel the strain on your chic arms as you continue to spread them. Since you're by far the most chic person around, you have to set a good example for your people, so don't let them (or your arms) down.
# | 妖 | Supernatural, Enchanting | よう ; あや | Woman + Heaven | What kind of woman comes down from heaven? A supernatural one. She is so enchanting. Imagine your idea of what an extremely supernatural woman would look like, and have her come down from heaven towards you. You're totally enchanted by her looks. The supernatural woman comes down in front of you and she's so enchanting that it takes a while to realize she's completely made of yogurt (よう). Touch the supernatural yogurt woman and feel the yogurt. Taste the yogurt, what flavor is it? It's totally enchanting you further.
# | 透 | Transparent | とう ; す | Scooter + Grain + Stairs | The scooter you made out of grains, and are about to ride down the stairs with, is completely transparent. You mashed the grains down so fine that you can see through them! And then you made them into a scooter. Picture this transparent scooter. Well, it's actually a bit hard to see, because it's see-through. I guess imagine the outline and the feel, as you perch at the top of your stairs. You slip, the transparent scooter scoots down the stairs without you and into the streets of とうきょう. Nooo! Transpa-scootie come back! Almost immediately you lose track of the scooter because it's transparent. All you see is とうきょう in front of you. And no scooter. Maybe this is why people don't make transparent vehicles.
# | 棄 | Abandon | き | Trash + Fruit | In the trash is a weird looking fruit. Someone decided to abandon it here. Most people abandon fruit when it's misshapen. It's probably fine though... You reach into the trash, take out the abandoned fruit, and bite into it. OUCH! There's a key (き) inside, and you just bit into it. You abandon the fruit and stare intently at this key. It must be why the fruit was weird looking and abandoned in the trash... but what does it go to?! You dig through the trash and try the key on everything that's been abandoned in there.
# | 凄 | Amazing, Wonderful, Terrible, Awful | せい ; すご | Ice + Wife | Your ice wife is amazing. She's also terrible, because she's very cold and has many ice powers, but that's also part of what makes her amazing! Picture your amazing and terrible ice wife. She's floating in your backyard cackling and shooting ice all around. She turns her amazing gaze onto your saber (せい) and hits it with an ice beam. Woah! Instead of turning to ice or shattering, it steals her awful powers. Now your saber is amazing and terrible too! Now you're floating in the backyard cackling with your amazing wife as you use your terrible saber and freeze things with her!
# | 至 | Attain | し ; いた | Mole | Dig up a mole and you attain a mole status. You're always trying to attain a new level for yourself and now you get to be on the mole level! It's actually pretty easy to attain mole status. Just stand in a field. Wait for the ground to move under you and shove your hand in the earth. Blam! An achievement pops up above your head and you're there. Mole isn't enough, you want to attain sheep (し) status next. Everyone knows it goes human > mole> sheep. Now you need to stand in the field with the mole and get a sheep to come over. If you can attain two animal levels in one day you'll be a legend on the leaderboards.
# | 拠 | Based On | きょ, こ ; よ | Fingers + Winter + Table | Wipe your fingers on this table in winter to see what it was based on. The cold winter weathers cover the table in frost, and when you wipe it away, you can see traces of what the table was originally based on. All tables have to be based on something, even if it's just other tables that came before them. Imagine tracing your fingers over the table, the cold winter frost stinging them, as you reveal the secrets of this table and what it was based on. This particular table was based on Little Kyoto (きょ). Little buildings and temples, that sort of look like Little Kyoto. Problem is, it was made by a 子 (こ), so it's not very good. The buildings and temples are all very childlike. Like crayon drawn on a table.
# | 蜂 | Bee | はち ; ほう | Insect + Signpost | On the insect signpost there is a single sign that says bee. This particular insect signpost points you to where the bee is. Thanks to the insect signpost you find the bee. You make it just in time to see the bee hatch (はち) from its egg. You got to see a single bee hatch! What a beautiful sight. Weird that a signpost points to it.
# | 儀 | Ceremony | ぎ | Leader + Righteousness | The leader of righteousness is the only one who can run this ceremony. Why? Because it's a very pure ceremony, and only those with an extremely righteous mind can run it. Have him run your ceremony for you. Think about why he is so righteous, then think about an extremely righteous ceremony. Sadly, the reason only the righteous can run this ceremony is because it's a punishment ceremony, where he pulls the cord to cut someone's head off via a guillotine (ぎ). *CHOP*
# | 炭 | Charcoal | たん ; すみ | Mountain + Cliff + Fire | You climb up a mountain and a cliff in search of fire, but all you find is charcoal. You can make fire with the charcoal, but you were hoping to find fire itself. All that climbing for nothing. You’re angry that you could only find charcoal so you take the charcoal in your hands and you crush it atop the cliff on the mountain. Feel the charcoal breaking in your hands as the wind carries the charcoal dust off from the top of the cliff on the mountain. After crushing the charcoal, you decide to take advantage of your current location and lie out in the sun for a while to get a tan (たん). Instead of getting a tan though, you catch on fire. Oops. Imagine lying out in the sun next to the crushed charcoal, thinking you’re going to get tan. You’re very surprised when you actually catch on fire. Hot hot hot!
# | 潜 | Conceal | せん ; くぐ, ひそ, もぐ | Tsunami + Husband + Sun | A tsunami carries a husband and his husband up into the sun, where they're going to conceal something. Imagine the tsunami taking the two husbands up into the sun. Hear the water gushing. That tsunami is gigantic. What are they going to conceal in the sun? The husbands are going to conceal their pet centaur (せん) in the sun. The local government isn’t too pleased that they have a pet centaur so they have to conceal it in the sun so it doesn't get confiscated. Just make sure to remember there is a centaur up on that tsunami with the husbands, heading towards the sun. They need to conceal the centaur to keep it safe.
# | 偽 | Fake | ぎ ; にせ, いつわ | Leader + Sake | The leader gets a nice uniform for the sake of not wanting to look like a fake. The leader is a fake, he just doesn’t want to look like one. He’s not really a leader, but he thinks he should get an official-looking uniform for the sake of not looking like a fake. Look at this fake leader. See him scramble into a uniform. Does he look like a real leader? Or can you tell that he is a fake? Well, everyone found out he was a fake anyway, and now you're all going to use a guillotine (ぎ) to cut off his fake head. Watch as the guillotine comes down. You close your eyes for a second, and when you open them you see that the leader's body was a fake! Wait, where did he go?!
# | 畑 | Field | はたけ, はた | Fire + Rice Paddy | A fire in the rice paddy burns down the field. The rice paddy fire spreads out from the paddy and consumes the field next to it. This rice paddy fire has ravaged your entire farm! Look at this fire burning the rice paddy and the surrounding field. Smell burnt rice in the air as you see the flames dance before your eyes. Your rice paddy farm and field are on a cay. A cay is a small, sandy island, and since your farm is on fire, this cay has turned into a hot cay. Or as Mario would say, that’s one-a hot-a cay! (はたけ) Mama mia! Imagine running around this hot cay as you try to put out the fire in your field. The fire is ravaging the entire hot cay, so it takes you a while to put it out. Man those flames are hot. Also, this kanji can have the reading はた for the kun'yomi as well. If you learn the longer version (はたけ) it will be easier to just shave off a kana to remember the shorter version.
# | 蛍 | Firefly | ほたる ; けい | Viking + Insect | A Viking insect is a firefly. In the insect kingdom, the insect most resembling a Viking is undoubtedly the firefly. Imagine this little firefly blinking his firefly light as he flies around shouting a Viking warcry and brandishing an axe. Yaaaargh! The Viking firefly is attacking Hotaru (ほたる) Tomoe (alter ego of Sailor Saturn) because the Viking firefly hates the show Sailor Moon and everyone on it. Hotaru screams in terror as she is deathly afraid of fireflies, especially Viking ones. Hear Hotaru’s shrill scream as she runs away from the Viking firefly. If you don’t know what Hotaru Tomoe looks like, Google a picture of her to get a better visualization.
# | 拳 | Fist | けん, げん ; こぶし | Gladiator + Hand | A gladiator turns his hand into a fist. A fist for punching other gladiators. Picture the gladiator squeezing his hand into a tight fist, raising it up and yelling. The gladiator's fist is now aimed at Ken (けん) the samurai. Little does the gladiator know, Ken knows the ways of the samurai and the gladiator. He slowly raises his own hands and turns them into fists. Ken and the gladiator clash! Fists fly! You've never seen hand-to-hand combat like this! You can hardly keep up!!
# | 酎 | Hard Liquor | ちゅう, ちゅ ; かも | Alcohol + Measurement | The alcohol that needs measurement is hard liquor. Drinking too much hard liquor isn't good for you, so you must make sure to measure it out in precise quantities. Imagine the hard liquor as you measure it out. Hear it pouring out of the bottle into a little measuring cup as you catch the whiff of strong alcohol in the air. You know who enjoyed hard liquor a lot? Chewbacca (ちゅう). He was always drinking, which is concerning when you think about all the driving he did. Imagine Chewbacca drinking hard liquor all the time while Han Solo told him he needed to stop and get help, but Chewbacca just did his yell thing and drank more hard liquor.
# | 郷 | Hometown | きょう | Poop + Guy | Everyone has a poop guy from their hometown. You know. That poop guy. And every single time you try to visit your hometown, poop guy is there making everyone uncomfortable and reminding you why you left in the first place. Picture the poop guy from your hometown. Picture him really vividly. The awkward, rude things he does. The way he smells. The way he makes you never want to come back. Your hometown is in きょうと which, unfortunately, means your poop guy is in きょうと too. Now every time you go back home he's there stinking everything up. Imagine all the wonderful things that exist in your hometown of きょうと. All the things you love to do and see. And now picture poop guy. Ruining it all with his poop hands.
# | 蜜 | Honey, Nectar | みつ | Roof + Certain + Insect | The roof (hive) on a certain insect (a bee) is what protects all of the honey or nectar. Bees are a certain insect that build a roof around their honey. To get the honey out, you need to put on special mitts (みつ) so your hands don't get stung. Your thick mitts make it so the bees can't even sting your hands. Unfortunately, you are naked and only wearing mitts, what were you thinking?
# | 仁 | Humanity | じん, に | Leader + Two | This leader has two things that remind him of his humanity: his shoes, and his hat. These two things remind the leader of his humanity because humans are the only ones who wear shoes and hats. Reflect upon your own humanity. What does it mean to be human? Is it wearing shoes and hats? Probably. Another thing that reminds you and the leader about your humanity is wearing jeans (じん). Jeans are the go-to legwear for many people, and no one but humans wear them. Jeans are another great symbol of humanity. Are you wearing jeans right now? If so, rub them with your hands and say aloud “Oh, the humanity!” Or just imagine wearing jeans if you aren’t actually wearing them.
# | 遜 | Humble | そん ; したが | Scooter + Child + Lineage | On this scooter is a child who's trying to show that his lineage is humble. All of the other children are going around in fancy cars or helicopters, but this one child wants to be a humble child of the people, so he scoots on a plebeian scooter. Picture this child scooting to his fancy, expensive university in a little suit. Compared to the other kids, his wheels are quite humble! This humble child is your son (そん). You don't want any child of yours flaunting his wealth and good standing in the faces of other people. You've taught them to be humble. You even bought your son this humble scooter and you really hope they don't grow up to be a selfish, spoiled kid this way.
# | 侵 | Invade | しん ; おか | Leader + Wolverine + Forehead + Stool | There is a tiny leader on Wolverine’s forehead sitting on a stool and commanding his troops to invade Wolverine’s brain. These tiny soldiers are going to invade Wolverine’s body in an attempt to destroy him. The leader himself isn’t going to invade Wolverine’s brain, he’s just going to sit on the stool and supervise. Imagine the little leader sitting on Wolverine’s forehead as he shouts “Invade! Invade invade! Invade his brain and destroy the Wolverine!” Soon they realize that they cannot invade Wolverine through his head so they travel down to his leg and try to enter through his shin (しん). The little soldiers take a big knife and slice open Wolverine’s shin in order to invade his body. See the little soldiers slicing open Wolverine’s shin as Wolverine grunts in pain. Getting your leg cut open is not a comfortable thing, even for someone as manly as Wolverine.
# | 嘘 | Lie | うそ | Mouth + Tiger + Spikes | Open your mouth. A tiger fell in there on some spikes! That's what you tell everybody, but when they look in your mouth there's nothing there. It's all a big lie! Of course there isn't a tiger in your mouth. And those spikes are just normal teeth. No matter how you look at it, you're saying a lie. Lie about spikes in your mouth and I'll put soap with spikes in it in your mouth to teach you a lesson. That's why I'm using uni soap (うそ). Now at least you're not lying about spikes being in your mouth.
# | 鉱 | Mineral | こう ; あらがね | Gold + Wide | Aside from gold there are a wide variety of other minerals as well. Think of the wide range of minerals there are that aren't gold. There are a lot. One person is trying to control all the minerals of the world. That person is Emperor こういち. Emperor こういち is getting all the minerals, and the 鋼, so he can take over all neighboring nations and force them into a subjugation of efficient kanji learning.
# | 喧 | Noisy, Picky | けん ; やかま | Mouth + Proclaim | Your mouth proclaims "I am noisy and I am picky!" It keeps repeating this over and over to everyone you pass by. The townsfolk agree with your mouth, you are noisy and you are picky and you need to shut up. You are so noisy and picky that the townsfolk hired Ken (けん) the Samurai to shut you up. "Ken, your armor color is so last year. That squid you have is gross. Your sword is so gaudy. You talk like you're from the Edo Period, but it's Reiwa right now." Your noisy and picky self just goes off on Ken the Samurai. He skulks off, defeated by your noisy and picky words.
# | 伺 | Pay Respects | うかが ; し | Leader + Director | Your leader is also a director so you need to pay respects to him before you can start filming. He’s a huge big-shot and you don’t want to offend him by not paying the proper respects, so you make sure to bow every time you go on stage. Imagine bowing really really low as you walk on set. Don’t look him in the eye! He might get upset. Just do as you’re told! It turns out you're filming Iron Chef, and the leader and director is Chairman Kaga. You pay respects to him by saying Ooh! Kaga (うかが). Imagine Chairman Kaga looking down on you and you bow, slowly walking onto the stage. You say "Ooh! Kaga" but in your mind, not out loud, because the "Ooh" part would be rude. He is the leader of this show. You see him, think "Ooh, Kaga" and pay respects before cooking (and filming).
# | 徹 | Penetrate, Clear | てつ | Loiter + Trash + Moon + Winter | You decide to loiter next to the trash under the moon in winter so the moon's light will penetrate you. The sky is clearest in winter, and this spot next to the trash happens to get the most of it. Picture a single beam of moonlight penetrating through the winter sky, right onto the trash. You want the light to penetrate you, so you put your face in the way of the beam and it shoots clear through you. Your mouth fills with the taste of 鉄 (てつ). The clear, penetrating beam tastes exactly like iron, which is something you really weren't expecting. But now it's filling your entire mouth and you don't want it to stop.
# | 瀬 | Rapids, Shallows | せ ; らい | Tsunami + Bundle + Geoduck | A tsunami hits a bundle of geoducks, swirling around their weird shapes, and creating rapids! The rapids are so violent, some of the geoducks break out of the bundle and get washed into the shallows. Picture the bundle of geoducks getting smashed by the tsunami, breaking apart, and getting tossed around in the rapids. While those geoducks are getting tossed about in the rapids, you're sitting in the shallows chomping down on some celery (せ). Imagine the cool shallow water lapping at your feet as you bite into some crunchy celery and watch the rapids in the distance.
# | 嘩 | Rowdy | か | Mouth + Showy | Your mouth is showy so it makes everybody around you rowdy. Your mouth is showy because it's covered in grills and bright red lipstick. People get rowdy because you're a celebrity and your showy mouth is your signature look, and everyone's so excited to see your mouth in person. Everyone is getting rowdy so you get in your car (か) to escape. As you drive away in your car you flash that signature mouth at them one more time, and you can see them getting even more rowdy.
# | 墟 | Ruins | きょ | Dirt + Tiger + Cactus | You're digging in the dirt when you find a tiger and a cactus. You keep digging until you realize that these are a part of some big ruins. They're the ruins of tiger and cactus statues. It looks like whoever used to live here worshiped tigers and cacti. Or maybe they ate them. But now their whole civilization is just ruins. Imagine looking through these ruins. Picture the broken tiger and cactus statues. Try to imagine the people who used to live here before it turned to ruins. Well, as it turns out, these are the ruins of Little Kyoto (きょ), the city that existed before the modern day one. And it looks like the citizens of Little Kyoto faced their end a long time ago. Picture the ruins of Little Kyoto. Try to imagine what it was like before the whole place fell apart. Maybe they would have lived on if they hadn't been doing things with sharp cacti and bitey tigers.
# | 措 | Set Aside | そ | Fingers + Long Ago | You find some fingers from long ago. They must have been set aside by their previous owners. They definitely weren't cut off or anything, someone just decided they didn't want them anymore and set them aside. What would have to happen for you to set aside your own fingers? Try to imagine it right now. I know why they set aside their fingers long ago, it's because there was no soap (そ). If you didn't have soap to clean your fingers you wouldn't want to keep them for very long... Think of all the things you do with your fingers. Now picture how they would look if you had never ever cleaned them with soap. Uhg, disgusting. You should just set them aside here, and find some new ones.
# | 誠 | Sincerity | せい ; まこと | Say + Become | Something you say to someone you become attached to should be said with sincerity. You need to speak with sincerity when you say things to someone who will eventually become your significant other, for example. Imagine saying something with sincerity to someone you want to become important to you. Say something like, “I love you” out loud. Say it with the utmost sincerity. When you say something with complete, unabashed sincerity your special saber (せい) starts to pulse with the beating of your heart. It shows the person you want to become close to that you truly are sincere! Say, "I love you," again and watch your saber beating in time with your heart. If you weren't sincere it would fade and grow dull.
# | 虎 | Tiger | とら ; こ | Tiger + Legs | A tiger has legs that belong to a tiger. You know, a tiger has the legs of a tiger. This is common knowledge. Nothing new here. Look at the tiger running with his tiger legs. So majestic. So fierce. The tiger is using his legs to run away from the Torah (とら). This tiger is deathly afraid of religion, so a holy book like the Torah causes the tiger to run away. Imagine watching the tiger as it notices the Torah and then runs away. The tiger sounds as if it is screaming in terror as it flees from the proximity of the Torah.
# | 艦 | Warship | かん | Boat + Oversee | The boat that oversees other boats, land, and people is usually a warship. They're the big boats that oversee everything around them. And if anyone steps out of line, a warship can take care of it. Picture a huge warship overseeing everything around it. It's big and kinda scary. This huge warship is run by Genghis Khan (かん), the famous warlord. Really, what did you expect? Who else is strong enough to captain a warship but him? Picture Genghis Khan aboard a monstrous warship. He's carefully watching the sea and land that he's conquered.
# | 撤 | Withdrawal | てつ | Fingers + Trash + Moon + Winter | You use your fingers to dig through the trash in the light of the moon in winter because somewhere in there is your withdrawal letter. What did you withdraw? Your resignation? Your troops? Whatever it was, you need to find the proof, and fast. Imagine you need proof of your withdrawal so badly, that you're in the trash like this, raking around with your fingers in the moonlight. Close your eyes and feel the cold, smell the stink. While looking for the withdrawal letter, your fingers hit a piece of 鉄 (てつ). Ouch! The pain from the 鉄 reverberates up your fingers and into your hands and arms. What's this great lump of 鉄 doing in the trash?
# | 樹 | Wood | じゅ ; き; いつき | Tree + Drum + Measurement | Each tree needs its drum measurement done before you can say it's really made of wood. There are a lot of hoodlums out there that try to dress as trees and confuse people. So make sure you measure their drum before you cut one down or tell someone your secrets under it. If you're still not sure if the tree is really made of wood, just take out a small juice (じゅ) box and start drinking it. A wooden tree will show no interest in the juice box at all. However! A non-wood tree will be really thirsty from pretending to be a wood tree. It will start making sounds and moving and probably say, "Can I have a juice box, please?"
# | 包 | Wrap | ほう ; つつ, くる | Wrap | The wrap radical and the wrap kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! Think about being wrapped up, nice and warm and safe in your home (ほう). Home is where you wrap yourself in a blanket, in the warmth of the fireplace, in the arms of those you love. Home is where the wrapped heart is.
# | 析 | Analysis | せき | Tree + Axe | You hit a tree with an axe so you can do some analysis on it. To do the analysis on the tree, a cross section needs to be obtained, so you must chop it in half with your axe. Imagine taking this axe in your hands and chopping away at this tree to do your analysis. Hear the chop chop chop as wood chips fly into your face. The person who is doing this analysis is very sexy (せき). Who is this sexy person? Why it’s you of course, you sexy beast. I love watching you do analysis on trees. It’s so sexy. Imagine yourself being sexy and doing tree analysis. What sort of sexy analysis moves can you think of? Oh yeah, so sexy.
# | 弧 | Arc | こ | Bow + Melon | Shoot a melon out of a bow and it will fly in a steep arc. Melons are too heavy to fly straight, after all. Imagine shooting a really heavy melon out of a bow. Watch it make an arc through the air. Trace the arc with your finger. Shooting melons in an arc is something little 子's (こ) love to do. It also helps that when they come down from the arc they smash all over the place. Imagine being a 子 and watching melons fly in arcs all over. Imagine a little 子 version of yourself giggling and clapping your hands with absolute glee.
# | 到 | Arrival | とう | Mole + Knife | The mole has a knife ready for your arrival. You get out of your airplane, you step on the ground and... ouch! You stepped right on the knife, and there's the mole, sticking it out of the ground. "I checked the schedule for your arrival!" it squeaks happily, and disappears. Welp, your arrival didn't go smoothly. You have a knife in your foot. I'm not sure what you did to make that mole hate you, but you'll have to be more careful next time. Your arrival to とうきょう is now ruined. And your next stop is now going to be an arrival at a とうきょう hospital to get this mole knife out. This certainly wasn't the type of arrival you were expecting when you bought your tickets to とうきょう.
# | 軸 | Axis, Axle | じく | Car + Reason | For a car, the reason why it works is because its wheels spin on their axis. That is, they have axles. Imagine a car whose wheels don't turn on their axis. It has no axles. Not a car that will work too well. Your friend's car doesn't have axles, but he loves it anyway. He's all like, "Isn't this a cool car?" You reply: "Gee, cool" (じく) very sarcastically. You're super sarcastic about this, so feel the sarcasm inside of you when you imagine this.
# | 挑 | Challenge | ちょう ; いど | Fingers + Omen | When your fingers move like that, you know it's an omen of a challenge that will face you soon in the future. What kind of challenge is it? If you look closely at your fingers sometimes you can figure out the challenge that is to come based on their movements. In your finger, you see a challenge. And... if you look closely, you can see the fast movements of your fingers forming the outline of Mrs. Chou's (ちょう) face. Oh no, the challenge is going to be Mrs. Chou! Whenever you see an omen (radical), there's a good chance that Mrs. Chou will be a part of it. This is not a good sign.
# | 焦 | Char | しょう ; こ, あせ | Turkey + Boil | You take a turkey and try to boil it but you char it instead. That's what happens when you throw meat into a pot on high with no water in there. You should know better than to try to boil something without water! Now what are you going to do with this raw, but charred turkey?! You're staring sadly at the charred turkey when you suddenly sense the Shougun (しょう) looming behind you. You were supposed to be cooking this turkey for him and now he looks really, really mad. The Shougun reaches down and bites a charred hunk off the turkey. He yells and spits it out. Why did he do that?! You have no idea but it looked nasty.
# | 掘 | Dig | くつ ; ほ | Fingers + Flag + Exit | You see a flag near the exit, so you use your fingers to dig there. Most flags mark something, and this exit is pretty obvious, so there must be something under here. At least that's what you think to yourself as you dig. Imagine digging under the flag by the exit of your building with your bare fingers. The dirt is getting under your fingernails as you dig. It's getting on your knees. It's everywhere. You dig until you finally hit something. It's a bunch of buried old coots (くつ). They're in an underground room for old coots. One yells up at you, "Whatcha doing to our roof, ya whipper snapper?! Stop digging in our lawn!" You carefully un-dig the old coots and leave them to their old grumpy coot hole... basement... secret clubhouse? Whatever.
# | 紛 | Distract | ふん ; まぎ, まぐ | Thread + Part | Take this thread and look at this part. Now look at this part! Now look at this part. You don't know where to look! Haha, I have distracted you! You don't know what part of the thread to look at. What a distraction. Despite how distracted you are, that was indeed a lot of fun (ふん). Imagine yourself really enjoying looking at parts of the thread. You don't know why it's so fun, but being derpy is exciting, I guess.
# | 範 | Example | はん | Bamboo + Car + Snake | This bamboo can be whittled into an example of anything. See, here's a car. Here's a snake. I can make so many examples just with bamboo. It's amazing how fast this guy can whittle! One last example for you. Now I'm going to take this bamboo and whittle it into an example of Han (はん) Solo! Han Solo's bamboo example comes to life and runs off.
# | 括 | Fasten | かつ ; くく | Fingers + Tongue | Someone's fingers touch your tongue and fasten it together. You can't talk. All you can do is make sad tongue-less sounds as you try to figure out who would fasten your tongue like this. Try to fasten your own tongue with your fingers right now. You probably can't do it, right? That's because your fingers are too big and your tongue is too slippery. Only one creature could use its fingers to fasten your tongue like this: cats (かつ). Cats are notorious for fastening tongues so that people can't speak. Haven't you ever heard the phrase, "Cat got your tongue?" In this case, many cats fastened your tongue. You should probably be nicer to cats from now on so this doesn't happen again.
# | 握 | Grip | あく ; にぎ | Fingers + Shop | You use your fingers in a shop to grip what you want to buy. Imagine picking up a few different things in a shop. If something fits nicely in your grip: buy it. If it's too small or too big, put it back. You have a really strong grip thanks to acupuncture (あく)! All your fingers are primed for buying things. You can grip anything at a shop—pineapples, tires, even live turtles. All thanks to some well-placed needles. Acupuncture is great for strengthening your grip strength. If you do intense shopping (like I do) you should definitely consider it!
# | 枢 | Hinge | すう ; からくり | Tree + District | In the tree district of town you can buy a lot of tree products, including doors. With those doors, though, you always need hinges. Don't forget to buy a hinge. Your door purchase will hinge on your hinges. You buy an awesome hinge and try it out. Instead of working properly, it just falls apart and the door falls on you, crushing your lower body. You yell out (and you have to yell) "I'm GOING TO SUUUUEEE (すう) YOU!" Really lengthen out that "sue" because it's a long "suu" for the reading and that will help.
# | 揚 | Hoist | あ ; よう | Fingers + Easy | If you have fingers it's easy to hoist things above your head. If you don't have fingers, well, it's not so easy. Hoist the sails! Hoist the anchor! Hoist a baby! All of these situations are easier if you have a ton of working fingers. (The more the better.) Today, you have to hoist so much stuff. "Ah!" (あ) you say, "So much hoisting to do." Better get to it! Imagine hoisting things over and over again. Each time you spot a new thing that needs hoisting, you say "Ah! Something else to hoist!"
# | 潟 | Lagoon | かた ; せき | Tsunami + Sun + Wing | A tsunami crashes into the sun (breaking it in half) and creating a different wing of the tsunami all together. This wing crashes down and creates a lagoon. The lagoon is beautiful! The water is hot (from hitting the sun) but it isn't so bright that you'll get a sunburn. This lagoon was created on purpose by a really angry dude and his catapult (かた). He wanted a nice place to lounge that's tropical, but not too bright. So he came up with a plan: use a giant catapult to send a tsunami into the sun! Now picture it all in slow motion. The catapult tosses the tsunami into the air, it smashes the sun, breaks off into a wing of nice, hot water, and finally splashes back to the earth into a beautiful, secluded lagoon.
# | 芝 | Lawn | しば ; し | Flowers + Hills | There are flowers and hills in your front lawn. Your lawn is pretty big and it is covered with both flowers and hills. It’s very pretty. Imagine walking through your lawn and smelling all the flowers as you travel over the rolling hills. What a delightful lawn this is. You are the proud owner of a Shiba (しば) Inu, y’know, the Japanese dog? Well, this Shiba Inu of yours loves to run around in your lawn and through the flowers and over the hills. This is the perfect lawn for your Shiba. Look at your little Shiba running through the lawn all happy and elated. Hear him barking as he zooms up and down each hill.
# | 肝 | Liver | かん ; きも | Moon + Dry | If the moon is dry, it's good for your liver! Haha, get it? Because there's no moonshine to ruin your liver. Don't drink, kids. Imagine holding an empty bottle up to the moon and seeing it's completely dry. You pat your belly above where your liver is and say, "I guess you're safe tonight, liver." As you pat your liver suddenly a strange feeling bubbles up and the ghost of Genghis Khan (かん) comes out! Right out of your liver. Genghis Khan glares down at you, "You inherited my liver, and that means no moonshine for you. Protect your liver and don't drink, like me, Genghis Khan."
# | 餅 | Mochi, Sticky Rice Cake | もち ; へい | Eat + Horns + Lantern | What do you eat if you’re wearing horns and surrounded by lanterns? Mochi (or sticky rice cakes) of course! Imagine yourself in the lantern light wearing horns and eating delicious mochi. The reading of mochi is mochi (もち). Yay! As long as you can remember the meaning of this kanji, you'll know the reading too.
# | 喪 | Mourning | そう ; も | Cross + Mouth + Clothes | Under the cross is a mouth and another mouth wearing special clothes because they're in mourning. Picture the cross looming overhead, people's mouths open so they can sob loudly, and everyone wearing the same color clothes (just picture whatever color works for your particular culture/religion combo). As the mourning continues, the soul (そう) of the dead person rises out of the cross. The soul looks around at all of the mourners and nods. Yes, your mourning has pleased it. If you aren't mourning enough, when the soul comes out of the person's body, it will get really mad. "What, I'm not worth a few tears? Really?" And then the soul will haunt you. So you better mourn like you mean it.
# | 網 | Netting | もう ; あみ | Thread + Hill | You have a thread hill, but the hill is a bit weird looking (take a look at the hill radical in this kanji). It's not any normal hill, it's a weird lumpy hill that isn't quite right. That's because it is a thread hill of netting, and parts of the nets have caught things, like fish and cats, so there's weird abnormal lumps in them. You'll need to differentiate this from 綱, which uses the same radicals (though 綱 has a real hill radical). Just remember that the weird "hill" has stuff caught in it because it is netting. There's so much netting that it's out of control. You decide to take your lawn mower to mow (もう) it all down. When you do this, it destroys your lawn mower, because who thought it was a good idea to use a lawn mower on netting? Your dumb idea. C'mon!
# | 克 | Overcome | こく | Old + Legs | Even though you’ve old legs, you overcome your disability. These old legs of yours don’t work very well, but you overcome the odds and you run a marathon! Imagine running a marathon with your old legs to prove you can overcome anything. Feel your old legs cramping up as you try to overcome the marathon and finish the race. When you pass the finish line and finally overcome the limits of your old legs, someone hands you an ice cold Coke (こく) as a reward. Mmm, such a refreshing Coke. Filled with the jubilation of achievement from overcoming all odds, imagine the flavor of this cold Coke in your mouth. Fizzy and Coke flavored, it runs down your throat and into your tummy. Yum.
# | 泊 | Overnight | はく ; と | Tsunami + White | The tsunami that is white is the most scary tsunami of all. It doesn't come in and destroy everything. No, it comes in, goes inside your door, then stays at your place overnight, without even asking! Imagine the white tsunami knocking on your door, walking into your house, and then just laying down on your bed. You try to tell it to leave, but it's a tsunami, and it says it will be staying overnight thank you very much. Your cat walks up to the white tsunami that's staying overnight and decides it doesn't like it, so it hacks (はく) up a hairball on it. Even that doesn't get the tsunami to leave. See the hairball slowly sinking into the tsunami. The cat hacks up another one.
# | 双 | Pair | そう ; ふた | Stool | If you have one stool and another stool, you have a pair of stools. Look at this pair of stools. Look at it. Imagine being in front of this pair of stools. Picture yourself sitting on one stool, getting up, then sitting on the other. Repeat this process. This pair of stools shares a soul (そう). Even if you tried to separate them, they'd eventually find their way back together. It's the same with pairs of socks and pairs of people. Sometimes what looks like two things is really a perfect pair, with one soul. Meant to be together forever.
# | 柄 | Pattern | がら ; へい | Tree + Dynamite | You walk up to a tree and put dynamite on it. Then you set it off. BOOM. It explodes, but doesn't do what you'd expect. Instead of blowing the tree up, it blasts a very beautiful pattern into the side of it as well as the ground around it. Think about what pattern it might be. Is it a checkered pattern? Something more complicated and beautiful? Whatever it is, think of something that really impresses you. The pattern is so beautiful that you want to put it on your garage (がら). So, you do. Imagine painting your garage with the pattern you imagined earlier.
# | 哲 | Philosophy | てつ | Fingers + Axe + Mouth | Put an axe in your mouth with your fingers to express your philosophy. Your philosophy of putting weapons in your mouth. Everyone else seems to think it's a stupid philosophy, so you're showing them that it's not with actions! Imagine expressing your philosophy, your deepest thoughts and beliefs, by putting it in your mouth. Your philosophy on weapons in mouths means you're always tasting 鉄 (てつ). They say blood tastes like copper, well weapons taste like iron. Your philosophy and your way of life means everything tastes like 鉄 now, and you think everyone should be that way.
# | 斎 | Purification | さい ; いつ | Simultaneous + Jackhammer | Use simultaneous jackhammers to perform the purification ritual. Two jackhammers running perfectly in sync will purify your body, mind, and soul! (And the ground around you that's being jackhammered.) Close your eyes and feel the purification begin. Try not to let the loud jackhammering sound bother you, just focus on the simultaneous vibrations cleansing you inside and out. This purification ritual is supposed to help you forget your cyborg (さい). It's been a while, but you can't seem to get it out of your head. Hopefully this purification (or just the two jackhammers shaking your brain up like pudding) will get the memories of your cyborg to go away. You can't keep picturing it all the time like this.
# | 綱 | Rope | つな ; こう | Thread + Hill | If you take a thread and wrap up a bunch of it, so much it becomes a hill of thread, you're going to have a lot of thread. You can wrap some of that thread around other thread to create a much thicker thread. This thread is a rope. Imagine yourself twisting this hill of thread up to make thicker ropes. They're strong! Congratulations, now you have a perfect rope for tuna (つな) fishing. Tunas are massive, so you need a strong rope to reel one in. Imagine yourself going tuna fishing on a small boat with nothing but one long rope. This is how tuna fishing is done where you're from, so you're sticking to tradition.
# | 袋 | Sack | ふくろ ; たい | Substitute + Clothes | You keep your substitute clothes in a sack. The clothes in the sack are just substitute clothes, so they only come out in emergencies. Look at this sack of substitute clothes. Imagine it filled with all the clothes you hardly ever wear. What kind of clothes would be inside this sack? You need your substitute clothes so you take out your substitute clothes sack. You open it up to grab your substitute clothes, only to find out that there is a ton of salmon roe inside your sack. Oh man, you forgot all about putting that in there. You yell: F**K ROE (ふくろ) because that roe destroyed all your clothes and made it nasty. Imagine how nasty it is in there. Also imagine how smelly it is. Feel angry about putting roe in your sack. Why would you even do that? Why would the roe do this to you, as well.
# | 揺 | Shake | よう ; ゆ | Fingers + Satellite | You grab a satellite with your fingers and shake it! You're an astronaut and it's your job. Don't worry, the satellite won't break or anything, it's strong for space travel. Just do as you're told and shake the sucker. Imagine being in space and shaking a satellite with your fingers. You need to shake it because this satellite is full of yogurt (よう). And you only like yogurt that's been well shook. And who can resist space yogurt? Huh? Anyone? Imagine shaking yogurt in space. Now imagine eating yogurt as it continues to shake (in space still)!
# | 滑 | Slippery | かつ ; すべ, なめ | Tsunami + Bone | A tsunami breaks your bones, not from hitting you, but from making the ground slippery. The water from the tsunami made all the sidewalks and stairs too slippery to walk on, but you tried anyway, slipped, and broke a couple bones. Imagine trying to get back up on the slippery ground. You've already broken a few bones, but you slip again, breaking a few more. As you struggle on the slippery ground you hear a loud yowling sound. You turn and see a bunch of stray cats (かつ) slipping and sliding too. They're coming right for you, uh oh! Picture the cats trying to walk on the slippery ground. Their legs keep spreading, so they try to jump, but that makes the slipping worse, and they go sliding forward and topple over their fluffy buns and onto your broken body. Now the cats are all perching on top of you and your broken bones as they try to avoid the slippery ground. It would be nice if they didn't have their claws out.
# | 堅 | Solid | かた ; けん | Servant + Stool + Dirt | A servant secures a stool in the dirt so that it is a solid sitting device. If you just throw a stool on the ground it will flop over easily. But if you have a servant to dig it into the dirt a bit, it becomes nice and solid and safe for sitting! Picture two stools in your mind. One is solid, you want to sit on it. The other looks like the wind will knock it over. Don't sit on that! You need this stool to be extra solid because you're using it to test your new catapult (かた). If it isn't solid, when you launch it and yourself in the catapult, the stool might fall over, killing you both. And you don't want that, now do you? You better hope that catapult is solid too. If it isn't the whole thing will come apart when you try to launch yourself into the air.
# | 暫 | Temporarily | ざん ; しばら | Car + Axe + Sun | To your car you take an axe. The sun has broken your car for good this time (you think). You're so angry at your car. You think this is permanent. Turns out, though, that it's not permanent. It's just like that temporarily. You did make it permanent by taking an axe to your car, though. Feel sad that you were the one to destroy your car for good, even though the sun messed it up temporarily. You were driving around in Zanzibar (ざん) when this happened, too, so now you're stuck in Zanzibar, a foreign place, and you have no idea what to do next. You should probably be worried about this situation.
# | 糾 | Twist | きゅう | Thread + Vines | Thread and vines alone are too weak to hold anything up. You need to twist them together to make them strong. Imagine twisting some threads and vines together. Feel them and twist the two tighter together. As you twist the thread and vines together, suddenly you feel a lump. You look down and see a cucumber (きゅう) twisted into it. It turns out those vines you were twisting were cucumber vines! Yum!
# | 荒 | Wild | あ, あら ; こう | Flowers + Death + River | Flowers find their death in a river out in the wild. Flowers live on water, but this river drowns the flowers to death. The wild is a dangerous place. Imagine yourself out in the wild wilderness as you hear the flowers screaming until death takes them. The river is raging, there’s nothing you can do to help the flowers. The wild has claimed them. Ah (あ), the flowers in the wild have been claimed à la (あら) the great flood. Ah, you don’t think so? Well I do. Imagine this scene again, only imagine it like the wild flowers are experiencing their own great flood. Ah, those flowers are drowning to death à la everything that died in the Biblical flood.
# | 襲 | Attack | しゅう ; おそ | Imperial + Clothes | Imperial clothes allow you to perform an ancient attack that cannot be repelled. IMPERIAL ATTACK, GO! Imagine what this imperial attack might look like and imagine yourself in some swanky imperial clothes while you perform it. The attack's power is concentrated in the shoes (しゅう) in this imperial outfit. You attack with your feet, kicking the enemy with your old, fancy shoes. Picture the shoes as you attack, they glow—full of attack power! These +4 attack shoes are really special.
# | 朗 | Bright | ろう ; ほが | Good + Moon | A good moon is a bright moon. Not just in terms of light, but in mood as well. Like, gee wiz, what a bright, happy moon. Picture the good, good bright moon. Shining and shimmering and smiling down at us on Earth. It's so bright that you can see all the roe (ろう) in the sea glowing and reflecting the light like stars. And the tiny baby fishies inside the roe are smiling brightly back up at the moon! Picture this scene like it's a Disney cartoon. The good moon is smiling brightly down at the roe which are smiling right back. They might even start singing a song!
# | 摩 | Chafe | ま ; さす | Canopy + Tree + Hand | Below the canopy of trees is a hand. The hand is just there to chafe against the trees. There's a hand just chafing against some trees. That's... interesting. As the hand chafes on the trees, it says mama (ま), mama. This is the hand of a child looking for its mama. And, it chafes against trees to try and find the warm, soft touch of its mama. Instead, it only finds rough bark, so it continues its chafing.
# | 趣 | Charm | しゅ ; おもむき | Run + Ear + Stool | You have to run, put your ear on the stool, then run back. That's the charm of this game. Imagine yourself playing this game and basking in the charm of tapping your ear on the stool. The added charm of this game is that there's this big chute (しゅ) at the end. It's so charming because you love chutes. As you watch, you really see the charm of this game. Some people are throwing the stool down the chute, some people are sliding down it on their ears...how charming.
# | 懲 | Chastise | ちょう ; こ | Loiter + Mountain + King + Winter + Heart | The loitering mountain king who hangs around during winter to provide an indication (this kanji uses the "indication" kanji as its top 2/3rds) of things to come now looks into your heart, and only sees bad things. So, he chastises you about it. "What's in your heart is no good," he chastises you. Why is he chastising you, really, though? He foretold Mrs. Chou coming back in a previous mnemonic, but you saved Mrs. Chou on the beach (once again, in a previous mnemonic), so you could have prevented her second coming. He is chastising you for saving Mrs. Chou (ちょう). In the 潮 kanji you saved Mrs. Chou from dying, so he is chastising you for it.
# | 慰 | Consolation | い ; なぐさ | Flag + Jackhammer + Measurement + Heart | We put a flag to remember where we tried to use a jackhammer to measure your friend's heart. Granted, it was a terrible idea, but hopefully that flag of remembrance is some kind of consolation? Obviously it's not good enough consolation. Be furious about this. Even though you weren't happy with the flag, you were even more frustrated to watch an eagle (い) swoop down and grab the flag and fly away with it. Now you have absolutely nothing. Not even a consolation flag.
# | 懇 | Courteous | こん | Badger + Root + Heart | A badger, at the root of its heart, is a courteous creature. They may seem gruff and rude at first, but they'll still let you in their home in the middle of winter unannounced and offer you tea, a warm fire, and a place to sleep. Badgers are especially courteous to condors (こん). Condors live in the trees while badgers live in burrows under those trees. When humans tear down the condor's homes, the badgers who live below them always let them stay over until they get back on their feet. Picture a courteous badger taking care of an injured, and now homeless, condor. It's fluffing the condor's pillows, bringing it soup, and patting it on the shoulder saying, "There, there."
# | 晶 | Crystal | しょう | Sun | The sun hits this and breaks into three suns. What can split the sun in three directions? A crystal! Crystals take light and refract it around into many directions. That's why there are three suns in this kanji. Who is hoarding and harnessing the power of these crystals? That would be the Shougun (しょう). Imagine the Shougun lying in his bed of crystals. He still has his really serious, angry face though. Even as he rubs the crystals to his face, he's glowering.
# | 筒 | Cylinder, Tube, Pipe | とう ; つつ | Bamboo + Same | A bamboo stalk looks the same as a big ol' cylinder. Compare the two things in your mind and make them the same. Picture a cylinder shaped とうきょう. All the buildings are cylinders. The city itself is cylinder shaped too. Even... gasp! The people of とうきょう! とうきょう is a really weird city now that they passed the cylinder law. Imagine it so deeply that it weirds you out.
# | 滅 | Destroy | めつ ; ほろ | Tsunami + Slide + Drunkard + Ground + Fire | Hit by a tsunami the drunkard is propelled down a slide where he hits the ground which is covered in fire. He is immediately destroyed. Even if he wasn't saved by the slide (to avoid the tsunami) he would be in trouble. Seems like the world just wanted to destroy this drunkard. One could say this drunkard met (めつ) his fate. Strangely, he just came from a Mets (めつ) game, so maybe that's why he had such bad luck.
# | 威 | Dignity, Might | い | Slide + Drunkard + Ground + Woman | A drunkard goes down a slide, hits the ground and bumps straight into a woman of great stature. Imagine the shame. This drunkard has just lost all dignity and might that he may have possessed. And that drunkard… is you! Imagine the shame and disgrace you feel once you realise who you’ve just bumped into. Really lean into the feeling of all your dignity and might just slowly fading away as you come to realise the gravity of the situation. There’s only one thing you could think of that could possibly restore all your dignity and might: acquiring a pet eagle (い). Just think about it. It’s the only logical option. How could you not look all dignified and mighty if you just had your own eagle? Just imagine it all perched up on your shoulder. Such dignity and might.
# | 距 | Distance | きょ | Foot + Giant | A foot on a giant is a pretty long distance for a normal person to walk. Giants have big feet and can travel large distances very quickly. Compare the distance you can travel with one step compared to a giant. It's a considerable difference in distance. Going to Little Kyoto (きょ) is a short distance for a giant but a long distance for you. Imagine walking the distance between where you are and the (possibly made up) Little Kyoto. Think about the distance.
# | 籍 | Enroll | せき | Bamboo + Plow + Long Ago | People had to ride their bamboo plows long ago to enroll in things. There were no cars yet, so they would hitch a cow to their bamboo plow, and dig their way to the government office or school to enroll. Picture the little hut that passed for school long ago. All of the bamboo plows are parked around it, as the people enroll themselves and their kids up for classes. If you enroll in something new people will find you very sexy (せき). This was true long ago too. There's nothing sexier than trying to improve yourself. Picture a line of people enrolling for new classes, sports, citizenship, etc. The moment they've enrolled they poof into the perfect, sexy person (in your eyes).
# | 露 | Expose, Dew | ろ, ろう ; つゆ | Rain + Foot + Kiss | If the rain touches your foot and gives it a little rain kiss, you know that part of your foot is exposed to the elements. You can also see some dew forming on your exposed foot. So that's what rain kisses are! Ugh, you shouldn't have bought these open toed shoes, at least not during rainy season! You run along the road (ろ), trying to get out of the rain, but the road keeps going and going, with walls on both sides. You wonder how long this road will go. With exposed toes, your feet are going to get all wet with dew if you can't get off this blasted road.
# | 炉 | Furnace | ろ ; いろり | Fire + Door | A fire door is a door that leads to something full of fire. That thing is a furnace. Open the fire door and feel the heat of the furnace. Hot! You're using the furnace to melt tar to put on the road (ろ). Smell the tar baking from the furnace. Feel the heat from the furnace. Fix the road, while you're at it.
# | 柔 | Gentle | じゅう, にゅう ; やわ | Spear + Tree | You've been ordered to spear this tree but you decide to be really gentle instead. Imagine gently poking the tree with your spear. You glance around nervously, hoping no one notices how easy on it you're being. You're being really gentle to the tree when a jewel (じゅう) falls out of its branches and hits you on the head. The jewel has a little note on it, "Thank you for being gentle." Did... did the tree just reward you for being gentle?!
# | 琴 | Harp, Zither, Koto | こと | King + Now | Two kings are here right now! We need to entertain them otherwise who knows what they'll do. Get out the harp, or the zither, or something. Imagine yourself playing a harp or a zither, even if you don't know how. Entertain these kings to the best of your ability, right now. That's why you're doing it and not someone who knows what they're doing. They want it now. You may already know that a Japanese harp is called a こと, but here's a mnemonic to help you if you don't: When playing your harp, you always wear your coat (こと). Your harp playing is pretty bad, so you put your coat on just in case you need to leave in a hurry to escape an angry audience.
# | 垣 | Hedge, Fence | かき | Dirt + Ground + Dawn | Look at the dirt on the ground at dawn and you'll be able to see all the hedges growing in the area really well. At any other time of day, hedges tend to blend into their surroundings. But at dawn, the shadows the sun makes really helps them stand out. This hedge also works as a fence. It borders an area and you can't walk through it. A natural fence! Picture yourself leaning over a balcony at dawn, looking at all the hedges appear and their shadows stretch over the ground. You're looking intently at one particular hedge because yesterday you dropped your car keys (かき) behind it. Now that you know where the hedge is you're going to need to search it to find your car keys. Imagine rooting around under some hedges, desperately trying to find your car keys. Hedges are prickly and there's spiders in here! If only you didn't need a car in the first place!
# | 即 | Instant | そく ; すなわ | Root + Stamp | The root of a stamp is to get an instant picture down. Back in the olden days, people had to make seals and draw out things by hand, so stamps came about so you can—BAM—just stamp it and have what you want in an instant. Lots of things have roots from wanting to have something in an instant. Just think about instant ramen. The root of that was to get ramen real, real fast. Similar to stamps, ya know? Think about the thing you want to make instant. I'd want instant socks (そく)! Don't waste time searching for a matching pair or pulling them on. Just take out a pair of instant socks, add water, and the socks are already on your feet. In an instant! Imagine using instant socks. How do they feel? Soggy, but hey, it was fast!
# | 滋 | Nourishing | じ, し | Tsunami + Horns + Ground + Poop | A (fresh water) tsunami. Some horns. The ground. A bunch of poop. Combine these together and let them decompose a while. You'll have yourself some very nourishing soil. The stuff in horns is great for fertilizer. So is poop. So is water (as long as it's fresh water). So nourishing! This is the kind of nourishing soil that Jesus (じ) would make if he was into making soil, probably. Imagine him making soil made out of those things. Jesus approves of this nourishing soil.
# | 牧 | Pasture | ぼく ; まき | Cow + Winter | A cow in the winter doesn't like to leave the barn to go to the pasture. It has to, though, because a cow's gotta eat. It's cold outside (it's winter after all). Imagine you having to herd all the cows out to pasture even though they don't want to leave the warm barn. ぼく is one of the common ways to say "I" in Japanese (which you should remember!). In this case, you're a boy... a cowboy, and you say, "ぼく will take these cows out to pasture!" Actually say that phrase out loud while thinking about bringing your cows to pasture.
# | 泰 | Peace | たい | Spring + Water | The sound of spring water always puts you at peace. Everything from winter is melting and trickling and thawing. All the dripping sounds fill you with a peace you can barely describe. You want to feel this peace all the time, not just in spring, so you dip your tie (たい) in the spring water. Now your tie is making the peaceful dripping sounds you love. Imagine carefully dipping all of your ties in the peaceful spring waters and hearing that sweet sound you love at all times.
# | 旨 | Point, Delicious | し ; うま, むね | Spoon + Sun | Take your spoon to the sun to be able to take a bite. It's delicious, you hear. That's the point of the spoon. Taste that delicious sun. It doesn't even burn! This delicious taste is... familiar somehow. You take a few more bites and then scream. It tastes like sheep (し)! You had your eyes closed because the sun is so bright. When you open them you realize the delicious sun you were eating is really just a giant, really bright, cooked sheep. You should probably point this out to NASA or something.
# | 刷 | Printing | さつ ; す | Flag + Towel + Knife | You take out a flag, lay a towel below it, and use your knife to carve the pattern through them both. Voila! This is exactly how old printing presses used to work. The old way of printing involved taking the pattern you want (the flag) pressing it against the place you want to print it (the towel) and then just slicing that sucker on there (with the knife). As you're working on printing your own flag onto this towel you look over and see someone else just sat (さつ) down on theirs. "Excuse me, where is your knife?" you ask. "Oh, this way is slower, but it's less work. I'm just pressing them together with my bum." I guess if you wanted to be slow you could do your printing if you sat down on it too...
# | 珍 | Rare | ちん ; めずら | King + Hat + Hair | The king's hat, not to mention the hair stuck to said hat, is incredibly rare. If you have your hands on either of these things, you'll be a rich duck. Imagine yourself holding a king's hat covered in his hair. Who will you sell it to? This is such a rare item! Then you look closer at the hat. It's about to get even rarer. Attached to the hair is the king's chin (ちん). Not sure how it got there, but you'll make a pretty penny from this. The king only had one chin, so that's about as rare as they come.
# | 擦 | Rub | さつ ; こす, す | Fingers + Roof + Festival | You use your fingers to hold the roof of the festival up, but it rubs against them. The roof is heavy, and you have to walk to keep up, so the roof is rubbing against them really, really badly. Have you ever been to a Japanese festival? There's always one of those portable shrines that are basically just roofs people hold up. That's what you're trying to hold with your fingers as the whole thing rubs against them. Just when you thought the rubbing couldn't get worse, someone sat (さつ) down on the roof! AHG! It hurts! Picture a very large person that decided to sat down right on top of the roof you've been carrying through the festival. The weight makes the rubbing so much worse, you can feel the skin coming off of your fingers.
# | 封 | Seal, Seal In, Closing | ふう, ほう | Dirt + Measurement | You need to make a measurement of an area so you take two clumps of dirt to seal in each side of your measuring tape, so it stays on the ground. This is the way people used to seal things back in the day, back when we didn't have fancy things like tape and glue. Picture sealing other things with dirt. Like the bricks in your wall. Or the hole in your floor. Dirt can seal in anything. You can also seal food (ふう) in dirt to make it last longer. That's how jerky came about, you know. Seal some meat underground and in a few months you'll have some tasty dried meats to chew. By the way, this has another reading you should probably know. It’s ほう. Most sealing is done in the home (ほう), you know? So just think about eating food in your own home! Dig up your sealed food and eat it in the comfort of your own home. Mm, delicious!
# | 斉 | Simultaneous | せい, さい | Simultaneous | The simultaneous radical and the simultaneous kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! What simultaneously protects and kills? Your holy blue saber (せい). It's also simultaneously here and there at the same time. It moves really fast. And simultaneously glowing blue and white. Your saber is a lot of things all at once!
# | 沈 | Sink | ちん ; しず | Tsunami + Pirate | If a tsunami hits a pirate they are going to sink no matter how good of a pirate captain they are. Tsunamis are big. Pirates are small. Simple as that. As the tsunami comes to sink the pirate, the pirate holds his chin (ちん) up high. He will die with dignity. Imagine this dignified chin-holding-up-high pirate. Nod your head, because you know he got what he deserves.
# | 撲 | Slap | ぼく | Fingers + Business | Put your fingers in somebody's business by slapping them! This method also works if someone is getting too involved in your business. Slaps are basically your way of doing business with your fingers. Imagine giving someone a good, hard slap in the face. You're all up in their business now. ぼく is one way to say "I" in Japanese, usually used by dudes. But you're going to use it now when you slap this guy. Who's in everybody's business, slapping them? ぼく. Say that out loud, using ぼく. You're the boss, the boss of slap business.
# | 裂 | Split, Tear | れつ ; さ | Yakuza + Knife + Clothes | When a yakuza takes a knife to clothes, it will of course cause a split or tear. It doesn't matter if it's a yakuza member or not. Any knife will cause a split or tear in clothes. "I want to split and tear that." You agree, so you say Let's (れつ) do it. Think of a thing you want to tear with your yakuza buddy. You're into it, so you agree and say "Ret's do it!"
# | 潮 | Tide | ちょう ; しお | Tsunami + Morning + Moon | A small tsunami comes in the morning with the moon. That just means the ocean gets bigger when the moon's out, and that my friends is simply the tide. The moon does affect the tides a bit, so you can imagine the tsunami as the water getting bigger whenever the moon is out. That's just the tide. You go check out the tide. The water is coming in a little stronger, and something washes up on the shore. It's a body! You roll the body over and it is Mrs. Chou (ちょう)! She wakes up and says, "If only you came at low tide then I would never have been saved!" She jumps up and runs off, yelling something about destroying the world.
# | 貢 | Tribute | こう ; みつ | Construction + Shellfish | This construction project made from shellfish will act as a tribute to the Crabigator. The Crabigator is a sea creature (maybe?), so making a tribute from shellfish makes some sense. This great tribute is being commissioned by Emperor こういち. In his power, こういち has made a new religion around the Crabigator, to put the fear of kanji learning into his subjects. Hint: When you see 工 in a kanji it will often take the こう reading.
# | 刃 | Blade | は, やいば ; じん, にん | Blade | The radical blade and the kanji blade are exactly the same. Please, just know your radicals. Please! When you stab your blade into an enemy you shout "Ha (は)!" It's just the normal "thrusting with blade" sound. Ha, HA, HaaAA! Those are the blade sounds we all know and love.
# | 砲 | Cannon | ほう | Stone + Wrap | You put a stone into a wrap of some kind. This wrap happens to be a cannon, and you're shooting off the stone, just like I used to do to boats with the cannon we had growing up for some reason. This makes a lot of sense when you think about it, right? The muzzle of the cannon wraps around the rock, then you shoot the rock. Boom! You aim the cannon at your own home (ほう). You don't want to have a home anymore, you want to become a pirate, live on a boat, and (of course) shoot cannons all day long. Watch as the cannon goes off, the rock hurtles into your home. And just like that, there is a huge, rock-shaped hole in it. You'll have to shoot a few more rocks at your home with this cannon before it's completely gone.
# | 笠 | Conical Hat | かさ ; りゅう | Bamboo + Stand | A bamboo thing you put on your head to stand taller would probably be a hat. A bamboo hat is probably one of those hats you think of when you think of rice farmers, a conical hat. You know the ones I'm talking about? They're cone-shaped, sort of, and they go on your head, keeping the sun off your face. A conical hat is kind of like an umbrella on your head. What's the reading for "umbrella" in Japanese? Why, it's kasa (かさ)! Think about a bamboo umbrella on your head. They're pretty similar in shape, after all.
# | 竜 | Dragon | りゅう ; たつ | Dragon | The dragon radical is the same as this kanji, which is dragon. Not to dragon with it, but make sure you know your radicals so you know your kanji! Imagine a dragon. You are talking to it, which is already pretty strange, but as you're talking, he turns into the Street Fighter character Ryu (りゅう). Then imagine after his transformation he attacks you using his Street Fighter moves. "Hadouken!"
# | 拶 | Draw Close, Be Imminent | さつ | Fingers + Flood + Evening | Your fingers told you that a flood last evening seemed to be imminent, and that there was nothing you could do to stop it. You felt it draw close, coming in the darkness of the evening. Think back to last evening, when your fingers twitched and twisted, warning you as the flood started to draw close. As the flood began to draw close you knew there was nothing you could do, so you sat (さつ) down  and waited. You sat down and now you're still there, waiting for the flood. It's still drawing closer... it'll come eventually.
# | 縁 | Edge | えん, ねん ; ふち | Thread + Wolverine + Pig | There's a thread tying wolverine to a pig, balancing them over the edge of a cliff together. Picture wolverine and a pig hanging precariously over the edge. One move the wrong way and they'll both go toppling over. Suddenly, the pig squeals, pulls the thread, and sends them both over the edge. Straight to their end (えん). If you fall off the edge it'll be your end too. Always be safe and never get too close to any edges!
# | 忍 | Endure | にん ; しの | Blade + Heart | If someone puts a blade to your heart, you're going to have a rough time. They leave it there, for a long long time. They aren't going to cut you, but you can't move. You have to endure the pain and uncomfortableness of the situation. Imagine your chest and ribs are open. There's a blade on your heart. Now try not to move, or your heart will be cut! This is all a part of your ninja (にん) training. You must learn to stay totally still, without breathing. This is how they train you. If you can endure this you can endure anything, plus you can stay really still, which is good for ninjas. Just think about how much you want to become a ninja. You'll do anything, even endure this.
# | 釣 | Fishing | つ ; ちょう | Gold + Pool | A gold pool is where you're going to go fishing. Because, if the pool is gold, hopefully the fish are too. Imagine yourself fishing in a gold pool, catching golden fish. What a great fishing spot this is. You caught a couple of gold fish. Two (つ) gold fish, actually! Count your golden fish. They're so nice! They're also worth their weight in gold, because, well, they are gold.
# | 狐 | Fox | きつね ; こ | Animal + Melon | The animal that hangs out in melon patches is the elusive fox! They like to steal melons then come back into town disguised as human melon sellers. Foxes are tricky like that. Imagine seeing a red fox scampering through a melon patch trying to take melons with it. If you want to stop foxes from stealing your melons you can get one of those kits that neigh (きつね) when one is around. The kits neigh when they sense a fox, but because it sounds like a horse the fox won't run. But you'll be able to get out there and take your melons back! Imagine buying kits that neigh and putting them around your melon patch to warn you when foxes are around.
# | 吉 | Good Luck | きつ, きち ; よし | Good Luck | The good luck radical and the good luck kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! For good luck, you keep special kits (きつ) in your kitchen (きち). These kitchen kits contain good luck charms. Your good luck kitchen kits have charms that say things like, "good food," "good company," and "good luck not cutting off your fingers with kitchen knives."
# | 粒 | Grains | りゅう ; つぶ | Rice + Stand | The part of rice that stands up tall in the air (at the end of the stalks) is the grains. If you think about this one it'll make good sense. Just imagine rice stalks standing up into the air. You have a box of grains. Ryuu (りゅう) from Street Fighter is doing training by punching the grains to strengthen his fingers. He has his hands flat, and stabs his hands into the grains. Yah! Yah! Yah!
# | 髪 | Hair | かみ ; はつ | Long + Hair + Friend | Your long hair is your friend. It's your hair and you're so proud of it. Just feel your hair, it's such a good friend, and you wish it was longer. Who gave you this hair? Probably the great 神 (かみ) of hair. You deserve this great hair. Pretend to pray to the great hair 神. What is his reply? Does he give you more hair?
# | 丘 | Hill | きゅう ; おか | Axe + Ground | An axe is stuck into the ground on a hill. Imagine climbing up the hill. The sun is coming up behind the axe,  silhouetting the whole thing very nicely. You reach the top of the hill and realize the entire hill is covered in cucumbers (きゅう). The axe has a little note on it that says "Cucumber Hill Axe - Please Use." You take the axe out of the hill and cut off some cucumber to eat. Mm mm!
# | 斗 | Ladle, Dipper, Volume | と | Ladle | The ladle radical and the ladle kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! You use a ladle to distribute soup. But as you're ladling you find something odd floating in the soup. It's... a toe (と)! You scream, dropping the ladle and the toe on the ground. Your mom comes rushing in and smacks you on the head. "Fool!" she says, "This is toe soup, what did you think you'd ladle up?!" Oops.
# | 肢 | Limb | し | Moon + Branch | Looking at the moon, you notice it's grown a bunch of branches. Wait, are those all… limbs?! You feel absolutely terrified looking at the moon with all its branches consisting of limbs, lifelessly flopping around. How did this happen? After some consideration, you know who put all those limbs on the moon. It must've been none other than the moon sheep (し)! The moon sheep are always up to no good, so this must all have been devised by them. Those darn moon sheep!
# | 寸 | Measurement | すん | Measurement | The measurement radical and the measurement kanji are exactly the same. If you make sure to know the radicals, you'll also make sure to know the kanji too, automagically. You want to measure something... something that will make you famous. You decide you'll measure the biggest mass in our solar system. We're talking about the sun (すん). Imagine yourself deciding to do this. First step is to get a ridiculously long measuring tape. Then, you go up to the sun and start measuring. You immediately start getting burned. Feel the pain of the heat from the sun. Think about how this really probably wasn't a good idea. You still go forward, though, doing your best to measure the sun. Ouch, ouch, ouch.
# | 桃 | Peach | もも ; とう | Tree + Omen | The tree has an omen growing from it, one single peach that is the size of a house. Inside is a child who will save the village from demons. Of course, this tree omen of a peach refers to momotaro, the little boy who was born from a peach (you should look it up if you don't know this children's story). If momotaro (もも) wasn't enough, think about the peach growing larger and larger. You want it to grow bigger, so you yell at it: "MORE! MORE!" (もも). It grows bigger everytime you say "MORE MORE" twice. If you say it just once, it stays the same.
# | 梨 | Pear | なし ; り | Grain + Knife + Tree | The grain you cut off a tree with a knife is a pear. I don't know if you've ever seen Asian pears, but they're pretty big and sturdy. You can't just pick them off of the tree, you need the help of a knife. That's why this is a pear, and not an apple or peach or something else. Imagine standing below a tree full of pears. You take your knife and carefully cut them all down, one by one. As you cut the pears down, you can't help but gnash (なし) your teeth. You want to eat these pears right now. You gnash and grind and wait though, because you want to have them all down before you start the feast. Imagine a beautiful, ripe pear in your mind. Now gnash your teeth. Mmm. You want to eat a pear right now, don't you?
# | 姫 | Princess | ひめ | Woman + Servant | The woman servant is the lower ranking princess. The queen is no servant. Hecks no. Just the princess, because she's a servant to what her parents tell her to do. Just imagine a princess saying "UGH, I'm just like a servant, I have to do all the crap you tell me." Then, all the servants roll their eyes, because, really, she's a princess, lucky duck. The princess goes on to do whatever she wants. She tells the real servants, "Don't tell my daddy, the king, I did this. He may (ひめ) not like it." The servants all know they should tell the king, because the princess is a servant to the king, just as they are, plus they don't want to lose their heads.
# | 挨 | Push Open | あい | Fingers + Private + Arrow | You use your fingers when you're in private to use an arrow to push open things. You're in private in your own room, no one else is around. Now you wrap your fingers around this big arrow, and you push open your door, your curtains, your windows. It's weird, but you really enjoy this. Your favorite thing to push open is your own eye (あい). You take the arrow into your fingers and gently push each lid open until you can see. Picture the arrow in your hands. You're facing a mirror, but you can't see because you're about to push open your eyes. The anticipation is killing you, push them open now!
# | 娯 | Recreation | ご | Woman + Catapult | A woman loves her catapult for some good ol' fashioned recreation. You ask the woman what she does for fun... for recreation. She says, she goes out and shoots her catapult. Her favorite thing to shoot at with her catapult for recreation is Godzilla (ご). Get out of here, Godzilla! I'm gonna shoot you.
# | 謎 | Riddle | なぞ ; めい | Say + Scooter + Rice | I say, which weighs more: a kilogram of scooters or a kilogram of rice? This is a riddle! Think carefully and see if you can come up with the answer to my riddle before you read on. Did you figure out the answer to this riddle? Say your answer aloud to the screen right now.... not so (なぞ)! You're wrong. Did you say the answer to the riddle is that they're both a kilogram? Not so! A scooter is heavier than some rice! And don't you email me saying that's not so! It's my riddle, I can make the answer whatever I want. That's the law of riddles!
# | 侍 | Samurai | さむらい ; じ, し | Leader + Temple | The leader of the temple isn't a monk like you'd expect. It's a samurai, who protects the monks in return for prayers that keep him safe. You walk up to a temple and you're surprised to find that there's a samurai guarding it. Talk to him for a while so he can tell you why he has been doing this job. He's quite a nice guy, actually. The reading is samurai, which should be easy enough to remember. If you know the meaning you know the reading as well! That doesn't happen too often with kanji, so consider yourself lucky!
# | 叱 | Scold | しか ; しつ | Mouth + Seven | From my mouth I have told you seven times not to do that. Now I have to scold you. SEVEN TIMES! You'd think you'd learn. What were you doing wrong that caused me to scold you? You were feeding the 鹿 (しか). If you feed them they'll never be able to feed themselves! Imagine yourself feeding the deer, then getting scolded (or you doing the scolding to someone else feeding the deer, whichever works best).
# | 叫 | Shout | きょう ; さけ | Mouth + Vines | You have mouth vines, so you shout! It's hard for you to talk normally, and even harder for people to understand you unless you shout. You were born with mouth vines (a rare condition where your mouth is always full of vines), so you've been shouting all your life. And yet people still can't hear you. It's very frustrating. You need to shout so that people can understand you through the mouth vines. You shout, "きょうと!" because you hear there is a temple there for people with your condition. Imagine the word きょうと not coming out clearly because of your mouth vines. People can only hear the きょう part, so they don't know where you want to go. SHOUT LOUDER! きょうと！
# | 芽 | Sprout | め ; が | Flowers + Fang | A flowers fang is the bud that comes out of the ground. It's like a little fang, coming from the earth, and it will become a flower someday. This is a little sprout. Imagine a bunch of these. They look like big fangs poking out of the ground (that is, until they bloom and get into the air). When the sprout gets out of the ground and opens up, instead of a flower there is a human-looking 目 (め), looking right at you. You look at all the sprouts. They have all turned into 目s, looking straight at you. You're terrified.
# | 嵐 | Storm | あらし ; らん | Mountain + Wind | The mountain wind coming down from the mountains is very fierce. It is so fierce it's a lot like a storm. Well, it is a storm, really. If you think about it makes sense. Those mountain winds that come down from the mountain are cold and windy and nasty. When they mix with warmer air down below, it creates a nasty storm. A storm is nothing to scoff at. If you get hit by the storm and get all wet and nasty and electrocuted, you're bound to get a rash (あらし). The rash comes from being wet and not drying off when you get home. Your skin gets irritated by this moisture.
# | 雷 | Thunder | らい ; かみなり | Rain + Rice Paddy | Rain on a rice paddy means only one thing... thunder! Get off the rice paddy! There's nothing but you to attract the thunder! Imagine hearing the thunder as you run. It is getting closer. You can't run fast enough to escape the thunder so you hitch a ride (らい) from someone driving by. Thank goodness, that was a close one. The guy who picks you up is named Ryan, though he likes it if you call him Ry (らい).
# | 塔 | Tower | とう | Dirt + Flowers + Suit | When dirt and flowers suit one another, the flowers grow so tall that they make a tower! A flower tower made of flower power! Imagine walking in the woods and coming across a huge tower made of flowers. It goes so high you can hardly see the top. The only place flowers grow into towers like this is in とうきょう. とうきょう dirt is the best. とうきょう flowers are the best. Thus, you end up with a lot of とうきょう towers. How do you think the とうきょう tower came to be, anyway? It was once a big flower tower. They just replaced it with metal later. BOOM! History bomb, you're welcome.
# | 朱 | Vermilion | しゅ ; あけ | Slide + Jet | The slide to get off this jet is a beautiful, brilliant vermilion color. Vermilion is like an orange red, which is perfect for visibility purposes. You jump onto the vermilion slide. It's actually more of a steep chute (しゅ). And... oh... urp... it's making you sick. The vermilion chute spits you out and you spit out your lunch. And it looks vermilion. Uh oh. Hospital. Please.
# | 翼 | Wing | よく ; つばさ | Feathers + Rice Paddy + Together | A feather is on a rice paddy, and they are attached together. You put a feather on a rice paddy to create a giant airplane. Flawed, sure. But, this rice paddy + feather is going to be one wing of your amazing aircraft. Imagine a wing that is made of a rice paddy and a feather put together. Doesn't make sense, looks ugly, and probably will not fly. Imagine it anyways. It is your wing. To make the feather and rice paddy stick together you need some kind of sticking agent. This time we find the original bird that the feather came from and grab its eggs. We break the eggs open and use the yolk (よく). It's pretty sticky, but still probably not aircraft safe. Imagine using the yolks to stick everything together. It's all over your hands, and things are pretty nasty.
# | 頃 | Approximate | ころ, ごろ ; けい, きょう | Spoon + Geoduck | A spoon to measure a geoduck is a very approximate measurement. Geoducks are big, spoons are small. Still, we'll get the approximation going, right? Do the comparison. A spoonful of geoduck aka a whole geoduck on a spoon. This is a spoonful, right? This is what the recipe wanted, I think... Maybe this is too much geoduck, even if we're going for an approximate. So, you take the core (ころ) of the geoduck and measure that instead. That's a little better. Not too much geoduck. Still a lot, but more like an approximate.
# | 菌 | Bacteria | きん | Flowers + Mouth + Grain | When you leave grains in your mouth for long enough, they'll turn into flowers of bacteria. These aren't the nice, pretty flowers you'd give your mom on Mother's Day. These are little bacteria flowers that are taking over your mouth. Maybe brush your teeth next time. Imagine how much bacteria would flower in your mouth if you just left grains in there for like, I dunno, a month. That's a lot of nasty bacteria! There is a lot of this bacteria in the King (きん) of England's mouth. He eats a lot of grains, and he won't let anyone touch his mouth to clean it, but he refuses to do things himself... so it's absolutely chock full of bacteria. Picture the King's mouth up close. Look at all the bacteria squiggling around and through his teeth and gums. Bleh! Barf!
# | 鐘 | Bell | しょう ; かね | Gold + Stand + Village | Something made of gold stands in a village. It's a bell!  The village bell. Every village has a bell of its own, standing tall and proud and shiny in the middle for everyone to see and hear. The bell rings whenever the Shougun (しょう) arrives in the village. Its ringing echoes throughout the entire village so everyone knows they have to come out and pay their respects. The Shougun bell even sounds like it's warning you that the Shougun has arrived. It makes a loud, low shooooouu shooou sound.
# | 舟 | Boat | ふね, ふな ; しゅう | Boat | The boat radical and the boat kanji are the same! Boats are boats, you know? The reading is the same reading that you learned with the vocabulary 船. Since 船 and 舟 both mean "boat", this reading should be pretty easy to remember!
# | 嫁 | Bride | よめ, とつ ; か | Woman + House | The woman who makes your house a home is your bride. She's in your house because you married her. Thus, she's your bride. Your house is now a home. Now that you have a bride in your house, you can get rid of your maid (よめ), since your bride will do all the cleaning. Your bride is very upset at how sexist you're being right now, and makes you do all the cleaning instead. The maid still gets fired.
# | 暦 | Calendar | れき ; こよみ | Cliff + Tree + Sun | Looking up to the cliff, you see the trees, and the sun shining down on them. Using the sun and the trees (up there on the cliff), you've devised a method to tell what time of the year it is, based on where the shadow from the trees fall. After a while, you develop a bigger system. This system is a whole calendar. Look at the different shadow patterns. Know what they all mean. This is your very own calendar system. Remember the word 歴史, which means "history"? Using a calendar, you too can remember history (otherwise, who knows when these things happened). So, the reading for this kanji is the same as the reading for 歴史's beginning, because they're related. Make sure you make the connection between the word 歴史 and this kanji. If you do, it'll be much easier to remember the reading of this kanji.
# | 曇 | Cloudy | くも | Sun + Rain + Cloud | The sun is being blocked by a rain cloud, making it cloudy. You look up at the sky, trying to find the sun, but it's so cloudy that you can't even find where the sun should be. Remember 雲? It means "cloud" and has the same reading as "cloudy," making them both くも. If it's cloudy there are clouds, so if you can read one, you can read the other!
# | 也 | Considerably | なり ; や | Alligator | An alligator is considerably dangerous. Considerably terrifying too. Considerably [put your scary adjective here]. The radical meaning and the kanji meaning aren't the same, but we'll get through this together. Just put a considerable amount of effort into this and you'll learn considerably more quickly. Speaking of considerably terrifying, that place known as Narnia (なり) is pretty terrifying. Not sure why children want to go there. Also, things that are "considerably" anything start somewhere. They become (なり) whatever "considerable" thing they are now from something smaller before.
# | 塾 | Cram School | じゅく | Receive + Circle + Dirt | You receive instruction in a circle in the dirt. Where are you? Cram school! Your cram school thinks that you’ll learn better sitting in a circle in the dirt. So there you are in the dirt, receiving your lessons. Not only does your cram school teach kids in a circle in the dirt, it also plays music on a jukebox (じゅく). Yes, a jukebox. They believe a jukebox's tunes help with cramming. Imagine a jukebox playing loudly right beside you while you’re cramming away. Hard to believe, but the jukebox's melodies do actually amplify the cramming fervor, making you just cram, cram, cram!
# | 呪 | Curse | のろ ; じゅ | Mouth + Older Brother | From the mouth of your older brother comes... a curse! Imagine him cursing you. He's not a fan of you, since you are siblings, but to think he'd go so far as to put a curse on you? You can't believe it. What kind of curse did he put upon you? Turns out, he put the no road (のろ) curse on you, meaning you can never walk on roads. In your mind, walk around the area where you live. Think about the places you can go that aren't roads. If you try to walk on a road, you can't. This is the no road curse, after all.
# | 湿 | Damp | しつ ; しめ | Tsunami + Sun + Spikes | After the tsunami the sun comes out again and shines on these spikes. They were super wet before, but you figure the sun probably dried them off. You lean down to touch them and nope, they's still damp. The sun did a little bit of work, so they aren't wet, but they aren't dry either. They're damp. As you're looking at the damp spikes, a shih tzu (しつ) prances over, slips on the damp ground, and falls right on the spike! Oh nooo! Luckily the shih tzu is kinda pinned between the spikes, so it isn't dead or anything, but it's definitely stuck. You try to help it out, but you slip because it's so damp and you fall in too! Imagine the sound of your cries mixing in with the shih tzu's as you both struggling to get out but can't because of how damp everything is.
# | 稼 | Earnings | か ; かせ | Grain + House | The grains you have stored in your house reflect on your earnings. If you earn a lot of money, you have more grains. Imagine looking at the grains in the houses of people who make vastly different earnings. The poor artist has only a few sacks of grain. The rich samurai has an extra house just for holding his grain. That's how you know he has much higher earnings than the artist. Another way to check someone's earnings is to see if they have a car (か). Would someone who doesn't make a lot of money have a car? No! Picture your own earnings. Can you afford a lot of grains and a car?
# | 翔 | Fly | かけ, と ; しょう | Sheep + Feathers | A sheep with feathers (and presumably wings, too) is able to fly. Imagine the sheep with feathers taking off and flying around. It's an odd sight, but makes sense, kind of. Watching that sheep with feathers and wings flying around made you thirsty. You remember that you have a car kettle (かけ), so you reach into your car and grab your car kettle to make a special car-kettle brew. Imagine yourself enjoying the cozy car-kettle brew, while admiring the unusual sight of the sheep with feathers and wings flying through the sky. This is just shear bliss!
# | 賭 | Gamble | か ; と | Shellfish + Someone | I'm putting all my shellfish on someone, hoping they'll win the race! This is a gamble and you're gambling. Remember, shellfish used to be used as money. So if you're betting shellfish on someone, you're just gambling. And you probably won't get any of those shellfish back. If you win this gamble you'll have enough shellfish to buy a brand new car (か)! If you go to any of those fancy (and not so fancy) gamble-places, they always have a car sitting in the middle of the room. Usually rotating, really slowly, to make you want it more, making you gamble more.
# | 霊 | Ghost | れい, りょう | Rain + Two + Spikes | Coming down with the rain is two spikes. They go right through two ghosts. The ghosts are pinned to the ground by the spikes, unable to move. You come across the ghosts, who are stabbed into the ground. "Please," they beg. "Please use that ray (れい) gun that's in that row (りょう) boat and end our suffering." A ray gun, coincidentally, is the only thing that can kill a ghost, and there it lays, just out of reach. You'll have to be the one to pull the trigger of the ray gun. Do you pick up the ray gun out of the row boat to destroy the ghosts?
# | 溝 | Gutter | こう ; みぞ | Tsunami + Lifeguard | Tsunami vs lifeguard. Who will win? After the water drains away, we find the lifeguard in the gutter. To be fair, it's pretty obvious who would win. Nobody knows what that lifeguard was thinking. In the gutter is a lifeguard, so Emperor こういち decides to survey the damage. "This lifeguard didn't believe in the power of kanji learning," こういち says to the press. "He was punished by the great Crabigator, who sent its tsunami as a warning for all." Hint: when you see the "lifeguard" radical, the reading is probably going to be こう.
# | 狩 | Hunt | か ; しゅ | Animal + Protect | I protect my own animals by going to hunt other animals... like wolves and cougars and such. My animals can't protect themselves, that's why I hunt other animals instead. I also do all my hunts using a car (か). I just run those animals down with my car. Kind of cheating, but vroom vroom anyways. Imagine hunting down animals in a car.
# | 脚 | Leg | きゃく ; あし | Moon + Past + Stamp | If you've been to the moon in the past, you had to get the special stamp on your leg. This leg stamp not only proved you went, but lets everyone around you know you've been to the moon before! You've only met one other person with the same mark on their leg and it was Kyaku (きゃく) the customer. Kyaku visits many places all over the world, so it only makes sense that they've also been off-world too. Picture Kyaku lifting up their pant leg and showing you all the stamps from all the different places they've been. There are even some planets on there!
# | 澄 | Lucidity | す ; ちょう | Tsunami + Tent + Beans | When the tsunami struck, it hit your tent full of beans. When you lost your tent of beans, you had a moment of lucidity. You don't need so much stuff, you can live without it! Then you went back to being crazy. That moment of lucidity was only temporary, and you go back to stockpiling beans. Your lucidity is clear to everyone because you wear a suit (す). Everyone knows that lucid people wear suits! Imagine yourself wearing a sharp suit and being a model of lucidity
# | 塊 | Lump | かたまり ; かい | Dirt + Demon | A dirt demon is just a lump. Just like a dust bunny is just a clump of dust. Picture a lump of dirt. Is there a demon hiding under there? No. It's just a saying, ya nerd. Have you ever heard of the game "Katamari Damacy?" That game is about a little guy who rolls a ball around, turning it into a bigger and bigger lump. What do you think the Katamari (かたまり) part means? It means lump, of course. If you don't know the game and have never heard the music (especially), it's great stuff! If you have, this word will be really easy for you. If you haven't, look it up!
# | 狂 | Lunatic, Crazy | きょう ; くる | Animal + King | The animal king? He's just this guy who lives in the forest and thinks he's king of all the animals. He's a lunatic, though. While we're speaking of animals, he's absolutely bat sh*t crazy. You might see that crazy lunatic hanging around the outskirts of きょうと. He'll lurk near your trash cans and scream, "I AM THE ANIMAL KING!" and run away with some orange peels. I think he maybe got too friendly with some raccoons and beavers and went crazy. Watch out for him if you live in きょうと, rabies is no joke.
# | 嬢 | Miss | じょう ; むすめ | Woman + Nurse | A woman who is a nurse should be called miss. Compare this to a man who is a nurse. You should probably call him mister. That's why you know a woman who is a nurse is "miss." "Call me Miss Joe (じょう)," Joe says to you. When you think of "miss," remember the time Joe asked you to call him "Miss Joe". He’s this big, ten foot tall guy, but now he suddenly wants you to call him Miss Joe. Well, we’re all for respecting everbody’s personal choices here, so we better get used to it.
# | 裸 | Naked, Nude | ら ; はだか | Spirit + Fruit | If you're showing me your "spirit fruit" then you are just naked. You're nude. You know what I mean by "spirit fruit" –– yep, it's out there and you're naked. Known for being naked (and showing you his spirit fruit) is the ancient Egyptian god Ra (ら). Don't look up "Ra Egyptian god naked" in Google. Nothing good will come of it. Instead, just imagine your own Egyptian god Ra being naked in front of you.
# | 岳 | Peak | がく ; たけ | Axe + Ground + Mountain | An axe is sticking in the ground on top of a mountain. It's sticking into the very peak. Because why would you bother to stick your axe anywhere else on the mountain to prove you climbed it? Picture that axe, jammed into the mountain's peak. The person who did that must have been really cool to get all the way up there. You can't help but gawk (がく) at the peak. Somehow it looks even higher now. Go ahead, imagine this peak with an axe in it and actually gawk a bit at how far you have to go to get that high.
# | 磨 | Polish | みが ; ま | Canopy + Tree + Stone | Below this canopy of trees is a stone. Since it's the only stone here, you make sure to polish it. It's a single, perfectly round stone under this canopy of trees. It didn't start this way, but thanks to all the polishing you did, it has become nice and smooth. You polish the stone due to your meager (みが) lifestyle. There's only this one stone under these trees, and polishing the stone is the only job here. Still, you don't get much from it, thus the meager life of polishing your stone.
# | 陰 | Shade | いん ; かげ | Building + Now + Cloud | This building now has a cloud over it, creating shade. This shade is really convenient right now, because it's been such a hot day. Ahh, shade is so nice and cool. The building that's getting this nice shade is the inn (いん) you're staying at. Picture an inn with a cloud right above it right now. Look at the cloud-shaped shade keeping everyone visiting the inn cool and sunburn-free.
# | 肌 | Skin | はだ ; き | Moon + Table | The moon table is a table that's made entirely of skin. You thought the table was made of moon, with all those pores and such, but when you look more closely, you realize it's skin. Disgusting, porous, skin. Touch it and feel the "moon table." You know it's not made of moon. How ridiculous. But, when you go to touch this "moon table" made of skin, you realize that it's harder (はだ) than you expected. You'd think skin would be softer, but it's pretty hard. Much harder than you expected.
# | 魂 | Soul, Spirit | こん ; たましい | Cloud + Demon | The cloud floating above a demon has its soul in it. If you can manage to get through to the demon, to make it see that it doesn't have to be evil, it might remember who it is and return to the spirit it once was. Right now, however, the demon is looming over you, and you can't see anything in the cloud above its head. It just looks mad, like it's gonna pummel you or eat you. You shout out and beg its soul for help until, finally, you see the cloud take the shape of a condor (こん). Aha! "You were a condor before you became a demon! Remember who you are and turn back!" POOF! Now there's a condor spirit floating in front of you, crying. "Thank you, human. You've saved my soul!" it says, and float/flies off and disappears.
# | 矛 | Spear | む ; ほこ | Spear | The spear radical and the spear kanji are the same! Spears are spears. It makes sense! You take this spear and stab it into a cow. "MOO (む)!" it cries. The cow bites the spear out of your hands and stabs you back. "MOO!" you scream. How do you like it? Don't stab cows with spears, you monster.
# | 眺 | Stare | ちょう ; なが | Eye + Omen | When your eye catches an omen, it's only natural that you will stare at it. You don't see omens that often, so of course you're going to stare. We'll imagine what the omen is in the reading mnemonic. As you stare at the omen, you see Mrs. Chou (ちょう) knocking down buildings, putting nails on the street, and making herself way longer than you ever thought possible. Oh, and there she is, destroying the world. Whenever you see an omen (radical), remember that the omen will probably have Mrs. Chou in it!
# | 硬 | Stiff | こう ; かた | Stone + Renew | You feel like a stone that’s been renewed. How do renewed stones feel? Stiff. Very stiff. Think of a stone being renewed like it having something like a spa day. Pedicure, manicure, the whole shebang. It’ll come out all stiff and hardened, cause that’s how good stones are. You remember how you used to cure these stiff body times: your old friend こういち would just massage them out for you. If only you could ask こういち to give you massages again, but he's too busy for you, now (being emperor and all).
# | 卓 | Table | たく | Toe + Early | The toe is early. I hate it when the toes show up early. Well, if the toes are going to show up this early, I guess it's best to put them on the table. See all the toes lined up on the table. They are the ones who showed up early. What do all the early toes on the table do while they're waiting until it's the right time? They just sit around on their table, talking (たく). Imagine the toes talking to each other. "Hello Mr. Toe!" "Oh hello other Mr. Toe!"
# | 凶 | Villain | きょう | Treasure Chest | If there's a treasure chest, there's always a villain too. The villain is trying to get to the treasure chest before the hero of the story. And the villain always gets to the treasure chest first, often via nefarious means. That villain is SO important when it comes to treasure chests. The villain beat you all the way to きょうと to get this particular treasure chest. Arrrg! If only you had been closer to きょうと! Then you might have beaten this dastardly villain.
# | 滝 | Waterfall | たき | Tsunami + Dragon | A tsunami in the shape of a dragon flies off the cliff, then comes crashing down to the ground. This skinny tsunami of water flying down to the ground is a waterfall. Can you see why a tsunami dragon (especially the Asian skinny snake-like kind) could be a waterfall? Try to imagine it. Despite how cool a dragon waterfall is, to be honest it's also pretty tacky (たき). Now imagine it being a bit tacky. Dragons are alright but... you just don't want to overdo it, you know?
# | 墨 | Black Ink, Ink | すみ | Black + Dirt | You use black dirt to make black ink. That's what you use to write in black! Make sure the dirt you're using to make black ink is really, really black. Like the kind you find around volcanoes or something. Be careful that you don't spill black ink on anyone or anything. If you do, you have to own it. Imagine spilling black ink on someone, and when they confront you, you yell, "Yeah I got black ink on you, so sue me (すみ)!" Imagine yelling "SUE ME!" at someone's face, which is covered in the black ink you spilled there.
# | 瞬 | Blink | しゅん ; またた, まばた | Eye + Cleat + Forehead + Dance | Your eye gets kicked with a cleat that came careening toward your forehead when it popped off someone doing a dance, and you blink. Well, of course you blink, you can't control that. And when a cleat come hurtling toward your eye it blinks automatically. You blink and blink and soon (しゅん) there are tears coming out of them too. You try to blink them away but it's not working. Soon you're crying and blinking and crying some more. Soon the person who's cleat hit you is running over and trying to apologize and stop your crying, but it's too late.
# | 泡 | Bubbles | ほう ; あわ | Tsunami + Wrap | If a tsunami wraps around itself, the resulting wave will create a lot of bubbles. You know how tsunamis wrap around once gravity kicks in, right? Well when that wave crashes, a whole lot of bubbles are created. Picture the bubbles bursting out of the wrapped up tsunami as it crashes down. The air that the tsunami sucked in while it was wrapping up come out as bubbles big and small. One of the biggest bubbles heads straight for your home (ほう), engulfs it, and picks it up into the air! Watch helplessly as your home, now trapped in a bubble, floats away into the sky.
# | 穏 | Calm | おん ; おだ | Grain + Cleat + Wolverine + Heart | Some grains get stuck in his cleat, and Wolverine's heart grows calm. Wolverine had been screaming and yelling and stomping around, but when the grains entered his cleat he realized where he was. He was finally able to calm down. He's calm now because he stomped right into a farmer's field (thus the rice) and if he didn't calm down he'd probably ruin it. Now that Wolverine is calm, tears come to his eyes. Being calm has given him perspective on what his anger has done. Oh, wait no. There are just some onions (おん) in his cleats too, and they're making calm tears trickle down his eyes. Picture Wolverine sitting calmly in this field, onions causing tears to stream down his cheeks as he reflects on what he's done.
# | 孔 | Cavity, Hole | こう ; あな | Child + Umbrella | You see a child with an umbrella in front of you. Suddenly, they fall straight down into a cavity in the road. It's a big hole! You run over to where the child fell. They are just fine! Because they had an umbrella, they were able to float to the bottom. "Into my cavity you go!" yells a voice. It is こういち. "You will stay in that cavity or hole until you repent." If it hasn't been clear up until now, Emperor こういち is going mad with power.
# | 椅 | Chair | い | Tree + Odd | This tree is very odd, to say the least. The shape is all crazy, like a lightning bolt stuck into the ground, or something. Oh wait, look at this. I can sit on it really nicely. It's just like a chair! Imagine this odd tree chair being the most comfortable chair you've ever sat on. It's shaped perfectly for you, and the moss makes it soft. Wow, what a chair. But, this odd tree chair is also home to an eagle (い). It swoops down upon you as you sit down, gouging your eyes out. Feel the fear and regret. You should have known not to sit in this "chair". Mother nature never forgives, and now you don't have eyeballs.
# | 菊 | Chrysanthemum | きく | Flowers + Prison + Rice | If you pick certain rice or flowers you'll be put in prison. The most famous of these is the chrysanthemum. Chrysanthemums are super important in Japan because they're the symbol of the imperial family. They're even on the cover of Japanese passports. If you get caught picking a chrysanthemum, you're going to prison. Chrysanthemums are really important to the Japanese people. Please don't ever pick them (or rice, because that's stealing food, someone planted that)! If you go to prison for chrysanthemum picking, everyone in the prison is going to kick (きく) you nonstop. You broke the chrysanthemum picking law, so kicking is your punishment. And believe me, you don't want these kicks. Imagine holding a chrysanthemum in your hands while you get kicked over and over and over in prison. Was it worth it?
# | 綿 | Cotton | めん ; わた | Thread + White + Towel | The white thread in your towel comes from cotton. We use cotton to make lots of things, like clothes and bedsheets. But white towels are always made from soft, fluffy cotton. Imagine shoving your face into a nice, clean, white cotton towel. Mmm, so fresh. This cotton is made by men (めん). Picture all of the men lined up, making towels out of pure white cotton. They're all rubbing their faces in the soft cotton whenever they can.
# | 魔 | Devil | ま | Canopy + Tree + Demon | Below the canopy of trees is a demon. This demon is a devil. You thought the devil hangs out in hell, but he actually hangs out under this canopy of trees. Why is the devil under a canopy of trees? Because he's looking for his mama (ま). Into the trees is where all mamas go missing. And so the devil searches for his mama under this canopy of trees.
# | 寮 | Dormitory | りょう | Roof + Charcoal | You need to bring charcoal under this roof to heat the dormitory. You live in this dormitory with a bunch of other kids, and you all have to take turns bringing in the charcoal from outside to heat it. Imagine looking at a dormitory chore wheel and seeing it's your turn to carry in the charcoal this week. Bleh! The dormitory is on an island, so when you go out to get the charcoal you have to take a row (りょう) boat. You row and row and row until you reach the shed with all the charcoal. Then you row and row and row it back to the dormitory. The dormitory row boat leaks a little too, so by the time you get back you really need to light the charcoal and heat up!
# | 鳩 | Dove, Pigeon | はと ; く | Nine + Bird | There are nine birds and one of them is a dove and another is a pigeon. These nine birds are a flock of all kinds, but the dove and the pigeon are the leaders. Look at these nine birds strutting down the street like they own the place. The dove and pigeon are out in front because they are the most important. Hear them chirping and fluttering their feathers about. Take a look at the pigeon in front of you. Now, grab it, tear it in half, and grab the heart (はと) from its little body. Devour it. You love pigeon hearts. Discard the rest, keep the heart.
# | 鈍 | Dull | どん ; にぶ, のろ | Gold + Barracks | Make barracks out of gold and they will get dull quickly. Gold is soft, it's okay for jewelry and delicate things that aren't used much, but barracks for soldiers? Those are used constantly, and they get worn out easily. What was once shiny gold will go dull in days. Picture a huge barracks made of dull, almost brown, gold. Maybe you should have picked a better material. As you stare sadly at the dull barracks, the don (どん) shows up out of nowhere, and he's pissed. He turns his angry gaze toward you and says, "How did my barracks get so dull? Are you at fault? This is bad, this is very bad. Someone will pay for this." You stand cowering in front of the don as he inspects how dull the gold barracks are. You don't wanna be off'd for this just because the don was dull enough to make you use gold!
# | 鍛 | Forge | たん ; きた | Gold + Comb + Weapon | You want to turn your gold comb into a weapon, so you throw it into the forge. Once the gold comb has melted down in the forge, you can forge it into whatever weapon you want. You're trying to work the forge, but it's harder than you thought. You end up forging outside all day and get a wicked tan (たん). Most people who do forge work have tans. And now you know why.
# | 碁 | Go | ご | Crab + Stone | A crab moves a stone because he is playing the game Go. You know this game, right? You put black or white stones on a board until you win the game. This is the Japanese game known as Go. This crab is pretty good. Look at this crab placing stones on the Go board. Hear them click and clack as the crab places them with expert precision. Go is pronounced Go (ご) in Japanese, too. How convenient is that? Like, super convenient. So easy even a crab could remember! Go is Go. Easy!
# | 癖 | Habit | くせ ; へき | Sick + Hot Pepper | When you get sick you always eat a hot pepper. It's a habit you've picked up and you can't seem to shake it. One sniffle, one cough, and before you know it, you're eating a hot pepper or two. Imagine if you had a habit of eating hot peppers whenever you thought you might be getting sick. To be fair, it flushes out your sinuses and tastes good, so it's not the worst habit you could have. Everyone you know has a different habit when they get sick. Instead, they eat couscous (くせ). But you think couscous is gross. It's bland and does nothing for your stuffy noses and scratchy throats. I wonder how you can convince them to replace their habit with your own. Unfortunately, now you've gotten into the habit of telling everyone what to do when they get sick. "Yeah, yeah, eat a hot pepper, we know. But couscous is better," they say before you can speak. To each their own, I suppose.
# | 穂 | Head of Plant, Ear Of Plant | ほ ; すい | Grain + Favor | The part of the grain people favor the most is the head of the plant. You don't eat the stems and leaves of rice or wheat plants, right? You eat the head where the grains are. Imagine yourself walking through a field of rice plants. Now look very closely at the head of the plant in front of you. See the rice bunched up there? That's the good stuff. When you want to harvest the head of the plant you'd like to eat, you need to use a hoe (ほ). Using a hoe, you can dig up the bottom of the plant without injuring the head. Imagine working in a field of rice and using a hoe so you don't injure the head of the plant. You're sweating and it's hot, but you keep at it.
# | 吾 | I, Me | わが ; ご | Five + Mouth | I have five things in my mouth and I need them all for me. I own these five things, and I keep them in my mouth so people like you cannot take them from me. What five things would you keep in your mouth to protect them from me? Imagine these five things in your mouth and think of how important they are to you as you taste them on your tongue. Me, personally, I am quite thirsty so I ask for some “waga” (わが). I have five things in my mouth, so it is hard for me to pronounce the word “water”. So it sounds like “waga” when I ask for it. “Coulg I pweash hab sum waga?! I deed waga!!” Imagine how you would sound asking for “waga” with your mouth full of five things. You can carry out this experiment in real life if you would like, just be careful not to choke, okay?
# | 鍵 | Key | かぎ ; けん | Gold + Yoga + Brush | You take some gold and cover your yoga brush in it, turning it into a key. You shove the brush you normally use for yoga into the lock to your car and pour the gold over it. Now it's the right shape to be a key! You lost your old key, you see. But you're a go with the flow type of person, thanks to all the yoga, so you make a new one! This key has to be perfect, because if it isn't the car guillotine (かぎ) will come down and chop off your hand! Imagine carefully putting your makeshift key into your car's lock. You close your eyes and pray that the car guillotine isn't going to trigger, knowing it isn't a legit key.
# | 盆 | Lantern Festival, Tray | ぼん | Part + Plate | I found part of a plate at the lantern festival, and put it on a tray to keep it safe. There is a legendary plate broken into three parts. One part of the plate I found was at the lantern festival. The lantern festival was pretty cool, but I’m really glad I found the part of that plate I was looking for. Imagine holding a tray in your hands with this part of the plate on it, as the light from the lanterns glitters off it and dances around, illuminating the background. It’s enchanting. The plate part you found at the lantern festival (and put on the tray) is made out of bone (ぼん) china. How fancy. Is bone china made from real bones? Bones found in China? Probably not, huh. Tap this bone china plate with your knuckle. Hear the pleasant tap as you continue to view all the fancy lanterns around you at the festival.
# | 庄 | Manor | しょう | Canopy + Dirt | You're standing under a canopy when you see something strange sticking out of the dirt. You pull it, but it won't budge. You pull harder and harder until the dirt starts rumbling and a giant manor starts rising out of the ground with you on top! Picture yourself on top of this manor that rose out of the ground. The canopy is still above you and it seems to be attached to the roof. The beautiful manor begins to shake and the shougun (しょう) bursts out of the front door. "WHO HAS UNEARTHED MY SECRET MANOR?!" he screams. Imagine being chased by an angry shougun all through his giant, luxurious manor. You barely have time to admire the interior design with him gaining on you like this!
# | 猿 | Monkey | さる ; えん | Animal + Dirt + Mouth + Kick | An animal that kicks dirt into people's mouths is a monkey. Monkeys are naughty little things. You should be happy it was just dirt it kicked into your mouth, and not something worse. Imagine looking at a monkey at the zoo. Aww, it's so cute. But then it turns around and kicks some dirt right into your aww-ing mouth. Yuck! Why monkey, why?! You spit the dirt out of your mouth and look back at the monkey to see that it's saluting (さる) you. Is... is it mocking you? Picture the monkey saluting you as you spit dirt out of your mouth. Taste the bitter dirt and the bitter shame. You were played by a monkey.
# | 棟 | Pillar | とう | Tree + East | There’s a tree in the east that looks like a pillar. The tree is tall and straight and does not have any leaves or branches. The tree is basically a big wooden pillar that just happens to be alive still. Look at this big tree pillar over in the east. You always know where east is because of it. That pillar happens to be in the center of とうきょう. If you need to find east (which is where とうきょう is), you just look for the pillar. Imagine looking down on とうきょう from atop this magnificent pillar. The sun is rising behind you, slowly illuminating the city below.
# | 誇 | Pride | こ ; ほこ | Say + Big + Two + Prison | Say "two big prisons" with pride! Nobody said you can't have pride after serving time in two big prisons. So say it with your chest! Imagine really puffing out your chest and saying, "Yes, two big prisons!", with all the pride you can muster. After mustering all your pride, you feel like a new person, reborn almost. "I feel like a 子 (こ) again!", you proclaim to the world. With your regained, child-like pride, you venture out into the world after spending way too much time in those two big prisons. A new life awaits you, good luck!
# | 瞳 | Pupil | とう, どう ; ひとみ | Eye + Stand + Village | Inside your eye stands a tiny village that makes up your pupil. That's the black part of your eye! Oh, did you think your pupil was a hole? No, no, you misunderstand. That's where the village stands. It's full of little people who whisper to your brain what you should see. All of the people in your pupil eat doughnuts (どう) all day long. That's why your eye is shaped like a doughnut, with the "hole" (village) as their home. Even if you're a pupil non-believer, at least you can see how it's shaped like a doughnut hole, right?
# | 寧 | Rather | ねい ; むし | Roof + Heart + Net + Street | On the roof is your heart. OR! In a net in the street. Which would you rather? Would you rather have your heart up on the roof, close to falling but out of the way of people. Or would you rather have your heart in a net, which people can't steal from, but is in the way of cars. As you try to decide which you'd rather have, your neighbors (ねい) come out and grab the heart out of your hands. "I'd rather you didn't have that!" you shout as your neighbors run through the neighborhood to their own house. You'd rather this wasn't happening! You'd rather your neighbors let you make your own choice!!
# | 俵 | Sack | ひょう ; たわら | Leader + Life + Kick | The leader of your sad life aims a kick at the sack you are holding. This leader is in charge of making your life sad. The next step in the leader making your life suck is attempting to kick your sack out of your hands. Your sack holds all your valuables, so it's not something you want to have kicked. See this leader's kick coming at your sack. Hear the leader yelling as he aims his kick at your sack. Hiyahhh! Also keep in mind that the life radical is missing the little drop/slide thing on the side. It's missing that because your life is lousy and sad. You manage to get your sack out of the way as you shout "Heyo (ひょう)! Look, you missed! Heyo!" Unfortunately your leader's friend was standing behind you and he kicks your sack as you move it out of the way. "Heyo!" he shouts, mockingly. You thought you were all cool saying "heyo" and moving your sack away from the kick, but they had this planned all along. Heyo…
# | 幽 | Secluded | ゆう | Poop + Mountain | Poop Poop Mountain is covered in poop because it is such a secluded place. A secluded place has no toilets, so you just poop right on the mountain. The secluded Poop Poop Mountain is a favorite of youths (ゆう). They go there to get away from their phones to get in touch with nature again. Imagine hundreds of youths on this secluded mountain, all pooping on the ground while trying to get a cell phone signal.
# | 架 | Shelf | か ; か | Power + Mouth + Tree | With the power of your mouth you command a tree to become a shelf. Most of the time one would have to use their hands and tools to turn a tree into a shelf, but you are capable of turning a tree into a shelf by using the power of your mouth. Imagine using your mouth to turn a tree into a shelf. Yell at this tree and keep yelling at it until you see it become a shelf. Once you turn the tree into a shelf you put the shelf in your car (か) and sell it at a local pawn shop. You keep doing this over and over again until you are rich. You command the trees to turn into shelves and then you take the shelves in your car to sell them. Easy money. Imagine transporting the shelves in your car. Over and over. Back and forth in your car. Vroom vroom.
# | 黙 | Shut Up | もく ; だま | Village + Dog + Boil | Your village wants to take the village dog and boil it, and you can think of no other response than SHUT UP! The entire village is shouting and yelling and pointing at the poor dog. They're boiling a giant boiling pot of water, and you can't even hear yourself think anymore. Shut up, shut up, shut up! The villagers are mad that you told them to shut up, and they start to mock (もく) you. They put their hands on their hips, lean forward, cross their eyes, and yell "SHUT UP!" back. Even the dog is mocking you now. It's barks sound more like "shut up, shut up" than "bow wow, bow wow." What the heck dog, I was trying to save your life!
# | 斬 | Slice | ざん ; き | Car + Axe | You use your car and an axe to slice down a pedestrian. This innocent guy is just walking along the road when you drive up to him in your car and axe him to death with your axe. You’re all like, VROOM! AXE! Now this guy is dead because you sliced him down in cold blood. Imagine driving your car, waving your axe out the window and slicing this guy down. Hear his scream ring in your ears as you slice, slice, SLICE. You were driving around in Zanzibar (ざん) when you sliced down this man. Luckily, Zanzibar has no laws at all, so you won’t get arrested for slicing down this guy with your axe. Zanzibar is a crazy place, huh? Continue to drive around Zanzibar as you wave your axe out your car window looking for another victim to slice.
# | 帝 | Sovereign | てい ; みかど | Stand + Towel | You stand your towel up so everyone can see it. This announces that you are the sovereign ruler of this bathroom. Whenever someone walks into your bathroom, you start screaming that you are the sovereign ruler of this toilet, this sink, this toothbrush, and all that touch these tiles. As the sovereign ruler of this bathroom, you must choose a monogram to represent your rule. For this, you choose the symbol of the food that passes through you the most: The mighty tater (てい) tot! Picture your standing towel with a huge tater tot sewn into it. Everyone who sees this will know that you're the toilet tater tot sovereign.
# | 租 | Tariff | そ | Grain + Top Hat | Someone with a top hat comes and tells you that your grains are going to be taxed from now on. Top hat man says there is a tariff that's been enacted on grains. Rice? Triple the price. Wheat? Quadruple. People in top hats like to put tariffs on lots of things. Especially things you need, like grains you eat to stay alive. You have no choice but to pay. You're listening to all the things in this tariff and you finally get fed up and ask what isn't being taxed now. The top hat man looks at you and smiles, holding out his hand. In his hand is some soap (そ). Everything you get from other counties has been tariffed except for soap. You'll be hungry, but at least you'll be clean.
# | 錬 | Tempering | れん ; ね | Gold + East | The gold from the east needs tempering before it can be sold. The gold from the east is good, it just needs some tempering before it’s entirely presentable. You know, tempering like you’d do in a forge. Imagine tempering this gold from the east. You’re heat treating the gold when you’re tempering it, so feel the heat from the fire on your face and arms. The smithy where you’re doing the tempering is pretty fancy, but it’s just a rental (れん). You haven’t sold enough gold to own a smithy as nice as this one yet, so for now, you rent one. It is pretty swanky though, even for a rental. Imagine yourself in this rental smithy. It’s really nice. There’s like TVs and live music and free WiFi and everything. It’s a very nice rental in which to do tempering. Also keep in mind that this kanji shares its reading with 練, which has the same right side.
# | 阻 | Thwart | そ ; はば | Building + Top Hat | If you see a building wearing a giant top hat, beware! This building is a fake and it's trying to thwart all of the plans the people in other buildings have. Picture the building, with it's tall top hat, inching closer to other buildings when no one is looking. It's planning to thwart everything! The building next door is being painted, and the top hat building is jealous. It thwarts the painting plans by dumping soap (そ) out of its windows and onto the painters and the building! Watch as the soap cleans all of the paint away, thwarting the entire paint project. The painters are on the ground, crying and squeaky clean.
# | 歳 | Years Old | さい, せい | Stop + Slide + Drunkard + Jackhammer | You need to stop a drunkard from going down a slide with a jackhammer to ask him how many years old he is. He's doing a lot of dangerous things right now, and they all have age limits. Depending how many years old he is, this guy could be violating like three different laws right now. When you ask him how many years old he is, he turns to you and screams, "I'M A MILLION YEARS OLD AND YOU'LL NEVER STOP ME!" That's obviously not how old this kid is, so you take out your holy blue saber (せい) and slice the slide in half. Then the jackhammer. Then the kid's metal arm—wait! This kid is a cyborg (さい)! Your saber cuts through the cyborgs robo-body and it screams, "OKAY OKAY I'M NOT A MILLION I'M ONLY FIVE YEARS OLD AND A CYBORG PLEASE DON'T REPROGRAM ME!"
# | 零 | Zero, Spill | れい ; こぼ | Rain + Orders | You get rain orders. Your orders are to make sure there is zero spill. Despite it raining, your orders are to make sure none (zero!) of the rain spills anywhere. Figure out what you need to do to make sure you follow these rain orders successfully. Zero spill, alright? The best way to make sure there is zero spill when it rains is to get rid of the rain. You use a special ray (れい) gun and zap the rain right out of the sky. There will be zero spills because there will be zero rain. You just take your ray gun and "zap!" the clouds are gone. There will be zero spills today. Hint: when you see the radical orders it's fairly likely the reading will be れい.
# | 幣 | Cash | へい | Penguin + Towel | That penguin over there seems to have a towel stuffed with cash. The towel the cash is in even has a big $ on it like the ones they have at the bank. You follow the penguin into a back alley. Your eyes follow the cash, and you watch as the penguin stuffs it, towel and all, into a hay (へい) stack. What a smart penguin, people don't look for cash in hay, they're too busy looking for needles. You wait for the penguin to leave and you run over to the hay stack and stick your hand in. But you don't feel the towel or the cash! Instead you pull out your hand and it's full of hay and needles. Ouch! No fair, gimme that cash!!
# | 箸 | Chopsticks | はし | Bamboo + Someone | You give bamboo to someone and they make them into chopsticks. They are very talented at turning bamboo into bamboo chopsticks. This someone is an expert at their profession. Watch this person take ordinary bamboo and transform it into chopsticks right before your eyes. Hear the whooshing and whittling sounds as they form the bamboo into chopsticks with expert speed and precision. Now use those chopsticks to eat some delicious hash (はし) browns! That's what chopsticks were made for. That's what they're always made for. Imagine trying to pick up hash browns with your chopsticks. They would be really hard to eat if you didn't have these handy eating tools!
# | 瞭 | Clear | りょう | Eye + Charcoal | Rub charcoal under your eyes if you want to see clearly. Sports players also rub charcoal under their eyes to see nice and clear in the bright sun. You can even rub charcoal in your eyes if you really want to clear them up, but you should probably only do this under the supervision of your eye doctor. You have to have clear vision because you're about to go out in your row (りょう) boat. The light off the water shines right into your eyes and you need the charcoal to clear that up for you. Otherwise you'll end up crashing into the shore or going over a waterfall to your death. Imagine how dangerous it would be not to have clear vision while you row around in a row boat. You might even smack yourself in the face with your own oars.
# | 崖 | Cliff | がけ ; がい | Mountain + Cliff + Dirt | There is a mountain on top of a bunch of dirt with a steep cliff. This is a bit redundant, but the mountain and the dirt just make the cliff even bigger and steeper and scarier. Imagine a cliff. Now add two big helpings of dirt and a mountain to the top. It's still a cliff, it's just more cliff than before. You can't believe how big the cliff is now with the mountain and the dirt. You look at it for so long, you just become another gawker (がけ) who can't stop staring at the huge cliff. It really is huge. Imagine a giant cliff that turns every passerby into a gawker, just like you.
# | 炊 | Cook | すい ; た | Fire + Lack | Without a fire, you will lack the ability to cook anything. You really need a fire to cook properly. Having a fire will make sure any cooking endeavors you attempt will not fail. Imagine yourself as you cook with a fire very confidently. Knowing you cannot fail, feel the heat and hear the crackling embers of the fire. Smell the delicious smell of whatever you are cooking as well. You cook your meal evenly by swinging (すい) it back and forth over the fire. You swing it left, you swing it right. You swing it to, you swing it fro. All this swinging ensures a properly cooked meal. Imagine swinging this meal over the fire. Feel the flames licking at your fingertips as you cook this meal by swinging it back and forth over the fire.
# | 粧 | Cosmetics | しょう | Rice + Canopy + Dirt | Sitting safely under your canopy you take rice and dirt, mix it up, and create unique cosmetics for your face. Imagine mixing dirt and rice together to make some cosmetics that best fit your skin tone and type. No one will see you doing it under this canopy too, so the secret formula you come up with will be safe. You need these cosmetics because you have a meeting with the Shougun (しょう) coming up. You want to impress him, and you don't want anyone to copy your look. Imagine meeting the Shougun with your new cosmetics all over your face. You look amazing! Stunning! The shougun wants to know where you got that foundation, you're glowing!
# | 墜 | Crash | つい | Building + Horns + Pig + Dirt | A building falls into the dirt when a pig with horns crashes into it. The building literally crashes to the ground when the horned pig attacks it. Picture a pig with horns crashing into a building and both of them crashing into the dirt. Uh oh, is the pig dead? You pull the poor pig out of the rubble of the crash. It's not dead, but it had a nasty bump to the head and now thinks it's a bird. "TWEET (つい)!" says the pig. "Tweet, tweet, tweet!" Poor confused pig. Imagine trying to explain to the pig that it's a pig, and not a bird. "Tweet, tweet, tweet!" says the pig again. Oh dear.
# | 欺 | Deceit | ぎ ; あざむ | Crab + Lack | A crab will try to hide what it lacks with deceit. Lying, stealing, faking things—no type of deceit is too much for a crab. Covering things up with deceit is pretty much the worst thing you can do, so don't be like this crab. Deceit can only take you so far, and soon the crab is caught, tried for its crimes and coverups, and sentenced to death via guillotine (ぎ). Picture the crab with its head, er, front half? Whatever, it's in the guillotine and it's screaming, "You've been deceived! I never deceived anyone, you're all sheep!"
# | 滴 | Drip | てき ; したた, しずく | Tsunami + Mohawk | A tsunami hits your mohawk and it begins to drip. The water from the tsunami continues to drip from your mohawk long after the tsunami has passed. There’s a lot of water in your hair now, so it’s probably going to drip for a while. Imagine having all this tsunami water in your hair. Hear it drip from your mohawk. Drip… drip… drip… Luckily, you’re a self-proclaimed techie (てき), so you develop a device to stop the drip drip dripping. This techie device of yours is like a hair dryer helmet. You put it over your mohawk, it does its thing, and your hair is dry! Being a techie sure does have its benefits. Feel the weight of this dryer helmet on your head as you listen to it whirr away. The dripping has finally stopped! Success!
# | 塀 | Fence | へい | Dirt + Flag + Horns + Lantern | In the dirt there are flags and horns lined up with a lantern attached to them, making a fence. It's a little weird looking, but these things are definitely supposed to fence something in. Can you see the fence made of horns and flags through the light of the lantern? You want to know what this fence is fencing in, so you take a step closer. As the light from the lantern gets brighter you see that the fence is around a ton of hay (へい). Picture yourself climbing over this fence (that you're definitely not supposed to climb based on all these flags and horns) and falling into the piles of hay. It's a little scratchy, but otherwise pretty comfy!
# | 霧 | Fog | きり ; む | Rain + Spear + Winter + Power | It's raining on your spear that has winter power. When the warm rain hits your cold, winter spear, it creates fog. When warm water touches a cold spear, fog billows out and covers everything. Through the fog you see the shape of a mythical kirin (きり). You can only see the outline through the fog, but you know it's there. You walk toward the kirin through the fog. When you get close, the image before you becomes clear: it's two cans of Kirin beer on a slide. Next time you see fog, keep your eyes peeled for the real kirin in the kiri.
# | 扇 | Folding Fan | せん ; おうぎ, あお | Door + Feathers | After passing through a door, you use a feather to put the finishing touches on a folding fan. The door leads to your folding fan workshop where you make all your folding fans. This folding fan is now complete that you’ve added a feather to it. How lovely it is. Use this folding fan to fan your face. Feel the refreshing breeze as you admire the gorgeous feather you just added. What a fashionista you’ve become. Your biggest folding fan customer is a centaur (せん). This centaur just loves your folding fans and this one you just made with the feather was for the centaur’s latest order. You go back out your door and deliver this folding fan to the centaur. Imagine handing this newly made folding fan to the centaur. See his face light up with delight as he examines your fine craftsmanship and starts fanning himself with it. Another satisfied customer!
# | 扉 | Front Door | ひ ; とびら | Door + Criminal | The door a criminal will get into is the front door. Now hold on, you may be thinking, wouldn't they go for the back door? No! 99% of home invasions happen when you leave your own front door unlocked! You better check the locks on your front door right now, because odds are you left it open and didn't even notice. It's the perfect door for a criminal to get access to your home. To protect your front door from criminals you plan to fill it with heat (ひ). Oh yeah, we're gonna Kevin McCallister this. Imagine how you'd heat up your front door. A hot iron? A blow torch? A small fire? It doesn't matter how, as long as the heat makes it all the way through your front door and hurts any criminals trying to get into it.
# | 恨 | Grudge | こん ; うら | Soul + Root | A soul will only inhabit a root if it's holding a grudge. Have you ever seen a nice, haunted tree? No! They're always angry and trying to get someone back for something. Don't die with a grudge, or your soul might end up angry and trapped in some roots. If you see one of these grudge trees, it's probably inhabited by the soul of a condor (こん). Humans tend to kill condors and take their trees away to build houses and make toilet paper. So condors hold pretty bad grudges against us, and so their souls end up stuck in a lot of trees. Picture a tree with the soul of a condor with a grudge in it before you. You feel bad about being so wasteful with paper and chopsticks now, huh?
# | 帽 | Hat | ぼう | Towel + Sun + Eye | You take a towel and wrap it around your head to keep the sun out of your eyes. You've invented... the hat! A hat is just a piece of cloth or a towel you get to stay on your head. Extra points if it protect your eyes from the sun. People see you wearing this fancy new hat thing and start asking you to share. You grab all your extra towels, roll them up, and bowl (ぼう) them down the street toward everyone who asks for one. Imagine bowling with hats. Thankfully, they work as bowling balls just as well as they work as hats. You're so innovative!
# | 憎 | Hate | ぞう ; にく | Soul + Mask | The soul mask helps you to see the deepest part of anyone's soul. You look around and in all the people you only see hate. You're supposed to see all the emotions, so why do you only see hate inside everyone? It turns out you're not looking at normal people. You see so much hate because all the people you're looking at are actually just a group of zombies (ぞう). Zombies are pretty filled with hate, so it makes sense that you'd see a bunch of hate if you used the soul mask on them.
# | 佐 | Help | さ | Leader + Narwhal + Construction | The leader of a narwhal construction crew needs all the help he can get. The narwhals are beginning construction on an underwater city. The leader knows the narwhals are hard construction workers, but they’ll need some help building this city. Imagine being the narwhal leader and asking others for help. Ask a shark for help. Ask a whale for help. Ask a shrimp for help. Go on, ask. Then you discover a saw (さ) who would be a great big help. This saw is very strong and would help you and your narwhal construction team out a lot. You should make use of this saw right away. Imagine using this saw and realizing how big of a help it is. Hear the saw sawing away as you and your fellow narwhals get to work.
# | 挿 | Insert | そう ; さ | Fingers + Thousand + Sun | You have fingers in the thousands and while looking up at the sun you decide you want to insert them in there. Hold your thousand+ fingers up to the sun and imagine inserting them into the sun's super-hot ... s-sun lava. (That's what it is, right? Yeah, let's go with that.) You insert one finger, it burns up immediately, and its soul (そう) comes flying out screaming for a moment before it disappears. Hmm. You insert another finger and as it burns up, another little soul comes out screeching, "WHY WOULD YOU INSERT ME IN THERE!" and is gone. Since you have a thousand fingers too many, you decide to insert them all into the sun and watch as their souls pop out. You listen to the little souls scream at you.
# | 伊 | Italy | い ; だ | Leader + Wolverine + Slide | A leader and Wolverine take a slide to Italy. Wolverine’s leader is Professor X, and they are both sliding down a big slide to Italy. How fun! Imagine Wolverine and his leader Professor X going down this slide to Italy. Hear them wooping and cheering as they ride down the slide. Whee~ Before Professor X can get off the slide into Italy, a large eagle (い) swoops down and plucks him right out of his wheelchair. That eagle is very strong. Goodbye, Professor X! Imagine this eagle carrying Professor X away from Italy and out over the ocean. You can also remember this reading easily because Italy starts with the letter I. Super simple stuff.
# | 詐 | Lie | さ ; いつわ | Say + Key | They say the key to telling a lie is to totally believe the lie yourself. They say that if you believe your own lie, others will believe it as well. This is key. Imagine an actual key going from you to another person. This key is the lie. You gotta believe in the lie for it to reach the other person and unlock their understanding. Visualize this visual lie. The lie you told was about not stealing your buddy’s saw (さ). You actually did steal his saw. He saw you steal his saw, but now you are trying to lie your way out of it. It’s not going well. Imagine trying to lie your way out of this. He saw you steal his saw. He caught you red handed. What sort of lie can you spin to get yourself out of this situation?
# | 如 | Likeness | じょ ; ごと | Woman + Mouth | With a woman's mouth, you have a likeness to me. Imagine someone's putting a woman's mouth over your mouth, looking at you, and commenting on your likeness. All it took was this woman's mouth. You have a likeness to Jo-Anne (じょ) when you wear that mouth. Jo-Anne popped her mouth off and put it on you. Indeed with that mouth on, you have an extreme likeness to her.
# | 唇 | Lips | くちびる ; しん | Landslide + Mouth | A landslide came out of your mouth and created your lips. Before the landslide, you just had a wide open mouth hole. Picture your mouth as an open hole. Now a landslide of something (words? food? something worse?) comes pouring out, and when it's done you have lips. You flap them open and closed to test them out. Now you can use your new lips to enjoy a nice, cold Kuchi beer (くちびる). The Kuchi people are Afghan Pashtun nomads. They are lesser known for their amazing beer. And you've never been able to get this delicious beer into your mouth, but now that you have lips you can get it all in there. Imagine wrapping your new lips around the mouth of this Kuchi beer bottle. It's so good! And you aren't spilling any of it!
# | 掌 | Manipulate | しょう ; てのひら | Viking + Mouth + Hand | A Viking moves your mouth with his hand to manipulate it. He sticks his hand into your mouth. With the Viking's hand in your mouth, he can make you look like you’re saying anything he wants. Imagine the Viking having his hand in your mouth. Taste his salty flesh on your tongue. Imagine him manipulating your mouth and your jaw and making it look like you are saying all sorts of funny things. The Viking is manipulating you so that he can manipulate the Shougun (しょう)! You and the Shougun have grown pretty close over the last year or so, and this Viking is going to take advantage! You don't want to manipulate the Shougun, but you can't seem to get the Viking's hand out of your mouth. You frantically imagine all the manipulative things the Viking could get the Shougun to do for him like this.
# | 婆 | Old Woman | ば ; ばあ | Wave + Woman | A wave crashes into a woman, transforming her into an old woman! The wave washes away all of the woman's makeup, revealing her to be an old woman. The makeup she had on made her appear to be a much younger woman, but once the wave washed away her makeup, she was revealed for the old woman she is. Imagine a gorgeous woman. Now see her get hit by a wave of water and turn into an old woman. The old woman could still be pretty too, she just looks way old now. Like ancient. In an attempt to distract you from the fact that she is actually an old woman, the old woman starts to baa (ば) and act like a sheep. The old woman goes "Baa! Baa!" and hops around on all fours like a sheep. Imagine this old woman acting like a sheep, just saying "baa" over and over and over again. Baa! Baa! Baa!
# | 哀 | Pathetic | あい ; あわ | Lid + Mouth + Kick | With a lid, you hit yourself in the mouth and then kick it like a pathetic loser. You kick the lid, even though it is your fault that you hit yourself in the mouth with it. It’s not the lid’s fault. You don’t need to kick it. You’re being pathetic. Imagine kicking this lid and with each kick you feel a little bit more pathetic. Your mouth hurts a lot too. You kick the lid one last time and it bounces off the wall and hits you in the eye (あい). How pathetic. You are a pathetic mess. You should have never kicked the lid. Now both your eye and your mouth are in pain, you pathetic fool, you. Hold your eye with one hand and your mouth with the other. Feel them pulse in pain as you reflect on how pathetic you are today.
# | 虹 | Rainbow | にじ ; こう | Insect + Construction | An insect specializing in construction builds a rainbow. Did you ever wonder where rainbows come from? Construction insects build them. Construction insects build rainbows. Imagine this insect with a construction hat on, building a rainbow. He works very fast. The resulting rainbow is beautiful! This rainbow building insect is so needy (にじ). He is needy because he needs everyone to look at his rainbow and praise him for what he’s done. “Look at my rainbow! Look at how good it is and I am! I’m so needy! Needy for praise and recognition!” Imagine this construction insect being all whiny and needy for attention and stuff. It’s pathetic. Hear him whine and whine because of how needy he is.
# | 爽 | Refreshing | さわ ; そう | Big + Treasure | A big treasure treasure treasure treasure is refreshing! Sorry, I can’t say treasure treasure treasure treasure without saying it four times. See? I did it again. Anyway, this big treasure treasure treasure treasure is really refreshing. It’s been a long time since you found a treasure treasure treasure treasure, so finding this big one is really refreshing. Imagine finding this big treasure treasure treasure treasure and being really refreshed and relieved and happy. This treasure treasure treasure treasure is so big, you’ll be set for life! You’d had a sour (さわ) taste in your mouth for not being able to find any treasure treasure treasure treasure for such a long time, but now that you found this big one, the sour taste is totally gone and it’s sooooo refreshing! Imagine the most sour taste you could ever imagine. So super-duper sour! Now imagine that sour taste instantly melting away once you discover this big refreshing treasure treasure treasure treasure. Jackpot!
# | 憩 | Rest | けい ; いこ | Tongue + Self + Heart | You keep your tongue to your self to give your heart a rest. You’ve been talking and moving your tongue around all day expressing your feelings. This has tired both your tongue and your heart out, so you stop your tongue moving and decide that you need some self rest time. It's important to let yourself rest every now and then, you know. What better way to rest than to eat some cake (けい)! No talking necessary. Just enjoy the delicious taste of cake on your tongue and feel your heart let out a sigh of relief. You should rest right now. Take a break from Japanese and go eat some cake. (Just remember to come back when your tongue and heart are sufficiently rested!)
# | 煎 | Roast | せん ; い | Before + Boil | Before you boil something, make sure that you roast it. Why would you roast something before you boil it? Because that something is tea! Or maybe coffee. Tea leaves and coffee beans are roasted before they're boiled. Now you roast yourself some centaur (せん). Roasted centaur goes well with tea. Smell the wafting scent of roasted centaur as you sip on your freshly-roasted tea.
# | 尺 | Shaku, Japanese Foot | しゃく | Shrimp | This shrimp is the exact length of a shaku, or Japanese foot. That’s how they came up with this form of measurement. They measured the length of this shrimp and it was the length of a Japanese foot which they deemed the shaku. It’s equal to 30.3cm, very close to one imperial foot. Imagine this foot long shrimp. It’s pretty big. Imagine it squirming about making a “shaku shaku” sound as it worms about. How is shaku, the Japanese foot, pronounced by Shaq (しゃく) in Japanese? Why Shaq pronounces it shaku. It’s pronounced shaku in both English and Japanese. Imagine Shaq dribbling the shrimp like a basketball, saying “shaku, shaku, shaku” every time he bounces the shrimp.
# | 砕 | Smash | さい ; くだ | Stone + Nine + Cross | Take this stone and throw it at nine crosses to smash them! It's like old-fashioned bowling, but instead of rolling this stone to knock down the crosses, you want to completely smash them to bits! Picture the nine crosses in front of you, lined up in a triangle. Now take your rock, hold it above your head, and SMASH it down on them as hard as you can!! As you smash these crosses, you think of your cyborg (さい) and how much you want to smash the people who took it away from you. Your cyborg was so good at smashing things too. You could be smashing together, if you didn't have to sell it. You smash things because your own heart has been smashed by your cyborg. :'(
# | 粘 | Sticky | ねん ; ねば | Rice + Fortune | Your rice fortune is sticky. Rice is sticky. So is your rice fortune. Your fortune of rice is sticky because it is made up entirely of sticky rice. Look at this sticky rice fortune of yours. Run your hands through it and feel the sticky rice between your fingers. Hear the sticky sucking sounds and you stir the sticky rice about. This rice is so sticky that you are able to sculpt nendoroids (ねん) from it. Your rice fortune is worth even more now that you are hand making limited edition nendoroids from it. Imagine sculpting these sticky rice nendoroids with your bare hands. Feel the sticky rice between your fingers as you smush the rice into cute little nendoroids.
# | 畳 | Tatami Mat | じょう ; たたみ | Rice Paddy + Forehead + Top Hat | In the rice paddy there is a forehead with a top hat. It sits atop an area of tatami mats. The meaning you're trying to learn is tatami mat, so focus on the beautiful tatami mats that are strangely in the middle of this rice paddy. On top is a forehead with a top hat. It almost looks like the tatami mats are an altar for this gruesome scene. Who made this creepy tatami mat altar? It was Joe (じょう), the increasingly concerning farmhand who lives in your village. You saw Joe setting up the tatami mats a day earlier, but you thought he was just making an area for workers in the field to rest in. Does the forehead with a top hat have anything to do with Joe? What sort of ominous sign could this be?
# | 胴 | Torso | どう | Moon + Same | The moon is the same as your torso. You must have a really huge torso for it to be the same as the moon. Imagine if your torso was as large as the moon. You’re a gigantic human. Imagine floating around in space like this. Wooooaaaahhh. Your torso got so big because of all the doughnuts (どう) you ate. You ate so many doughnuts that your torso got to be the size of the moon and then you floated away into space with your own gravitational pull and everything. Doughnuts are dangerous things. Imagine how many doughnuts you would have to eat to get your torso this size. Now imagine eating all of those doughnuts. I hope you like doughnuts, because you’re going to be eating a lot of them.
# | 巾 | Towel | きん | Towel | The kanji and the radical are the same, so remembering the meaning of this kanji is as simple as making sure you know the radical for towel first! If you know the radical, you know this kanji means towel as well. Make sure you know those radicals, yo! You know who loves towels? The King (きん) of England. He loves towels so much that he went around and put きん on every towel in the land, so you think of him whenever you use one. Go into your bathroom or your linen closet right now. Look at your towels. Look for the small きん hidden there.
# | 芯 | Wick | しん | Flowers + Heart | There are flowers growing around a heart with a wick sticking out of it. The heart is a sacrifice to the old gods and the life energy bleeds from the burning wick to feed the flowers. The wick burns, releasing the power of the heart which spreads into the ground around the heart causing the flowers to grow. See this morbid scene. As the wick burns you can smell the smell of burning organs. The flowers are pretty though. Sometimes the wick burning the heart isn’t enough for the flowers to grow properly and they get thirsty for the blood from your shin (しん). So, you slice open your shin with a sacrificial knife and drip your blood over the thirsty demon flowers. Imagine slicing your shin with a knife, causing blood to drip on the flowers around the heart with a wick in it. Your shin really hurts from the injury, but the flowers are rejoicing as they’re showered in blood.
# | 柳 | Willow | りゅう ; やなぎ | Tree + Stamp | A tree that is stamped with one pattern, then stamped with another pattern, over and over, is the willow tree. A willow tree is a tree that looks like it's on repeat over and over again. It also looks nice on a stamp. Note that the first stamp is kind of an ugly looking backwards stamp, and the second stamp is the normal stamp radical. Ryu (りゅう) from Street Fighter really loves willow trees. Ryu loves them so much that he makes out with them. Ryu is open mouth kissing a willow tree. You are watching this. It is happening. Watch Ryu as he French kisses this willow tree. Hear him slurping and moaning in ecstasy. Why are you watching this? This is gross. Wait – is this turning you on!? Ew.
# | 遂 | Accomplish | すい ; と, つい | Scooter + Horns + Pig | A scooter with horns with a pig riding on it will be able to accomplish anything. Imagine the pig scooting around. It is able to accomplish anything you can imagine (so go nuts with your imagination). It was even able to successfully accomplish a feat that involved it jumping its scooter right into a swing (すい), swinging back and forth, then jumping off. Perhaps it even takes the swing all the way around in a full 360 degree rotation. This horned scooter riding pig can truly accomplish anything.
# | 蓄 | Amass | ちく ; たくわ | Flowers + Mysterious + Rice Paddy | Flowers are mysteriously appearing in the rice paddy. No matter what you do to them, they continue to amass. Imagine yourself spraying poison on these mysterious flowers, but they just double in size, and continue to amass. As the flowers amass it starts attracting wildlife. Soon thousands of baby chicks (ちく) are amassing in the rice paddy as well. Feel the wetness of the rice paddy under your feet and the fluffiness of the chicks pressing in on you. Watch the looming, mysterious flowers above you as the chicks smother you.
# | 脇 | Armpit | わき ; きょう | Moon + Power | The moon has a lot of power that is power it gets from the power of every armpit of every human on earth! Why does your armpit smell? It’s because the moon is draining the power from your armpit. The moon saps power from your armpit and that power is sucked up into the sky where the moon collects the power for its own devices. Imagine an aura of stinky power traveling from your armpit to the moon. Feel the power leaving you as the moon saps your power through your armpits. This is a pretty wacky (わき) armpit image isn’t it? Seeing lines of power traveling from your armpit to the moon. Definitely wacky. Have you ever seen something this wacky in real life? Imagine this whole scene again but keep in mind how wacky it all really is. The moon sapping power from you through your armpits? So wacky.
# | 殴 | Assault | おう ; なぐ | District + Weapon | Give a district weapons and it will assault other districts. Picture two districts using weapons to assault each other from above. Like in a video game, with little arrows showing you where they're launching each assault. This assault is all the 王's (おう) fault. The 王 gave the weapons to each of the districts on purpose so this would happen. Picture the districts assaulting each other from above again, and then pan out and see the 王 standing above, watching it all happen. He's cackling.
# | 咲 | Blossom, Bloom | さ ; しょう | Mouth + Horns + Heaven | Having a foul mouth and horns will prevent you from getting into Heaven where you would blossom into an angel. If you have horns, you are not meant for Heaven and will not blossom there. To blossom in Heaven, you must not have horns or a foul mouth. Swear like a sailor as you imagine yourself with some horns. You’re not going to blossom in Heaven. You’re going to blossom in Hell and become a demon. You don’t want to blossom into a demon so you saw (さ) off your horns with a saw. If you saw off your horns, maybe you can beg for forgiveness and have your foul mouth forgiven. Imagine taking a saw to your horns and sawing them off. Hear the reverberation of the saw in your skull as you painfully saw off your horns.
# | 鉢 | Bowl | はち | Gold + Book | Cast a book in gold to make a bowl. Books can be bent into the shape of a bowl, so then all you have to do is pour gold over it to keep it in that shape and ta-da! A bowl has been born! Imagine creating this bowl yourself. Try not to burn your fingers with that hot gold. The gold bowl has a hatch (はち) attached to it, which used to be the book's back cover. That's fine, you use the hatch as a lid for the bowl! Okay, so this may not be the best bowl. You usually don't need a hatch or this much gold coating. But that's how they used to do it in the old days, so that's good enough for you!
# | 賢 | Clever | けん ; かしこ | Servant + Stool + Shellfish | Your servant uses a stool to break open shellfish. You know how much work shucking shellfish is so this method is really clever. You knew hiring this servant was a good idea. "Clever girl," you say, as your servant sits on some shellfish again. "More clever than you!" your servant yells, tearing off his wig. "It is I, Ken (けん) the samurai. I saw you take this shellfish from my master's lands." You thought you were being so clever, taking shellfish from someone else. It turns out, there is a cost for being shellfish.
# | 彩 | Coloring, Colouring | さい ; いろど; あや | Cleat + Tree + Hair | You use a cleat to climb a tree and your hair gets the same coloring as the foliage because your hair is like a chameleon. The coloring of your hair changes to whatever color is around you, so you use your cleats to climb trees to make your hair turn green and brown, and in the fall, yellow and orange and red! Imagine digging your cleats into the bark of the tree until you get high enough for your hair to start coloring itself tree colors. It might be a lot of work, but it's worth it. This cool coloring can only happen because you turned yourself into a cyborg (さい). Your hair and scalp are now made of high tech parts, not human ones. You couldn't take the pain of losing your cyborg, so you've become one. Your robo-hair can change its coloring, but soon you'll be even more cyborg-y than before!
# | 隙 | Crevice | すき ; げき | Building + Small + Sun | In this building there's a small sun that's small. They keep this small, small sun inside of a crevice. You wouldn't want to keep a sun out in the open, even if it's small (and small). You'd put it inside something, like a crevice. Imagine walking into the building and seeing the small sun right inside, in a crevice. They keep the sun in the crevice because this is a place where people ski (すき). If the sun were out in the open, it'd melt all the snow, making it hard to ski here. So they hide the sun away in a crevice so people can ski.
# | 培 | Cultivate | ばい ; つちか | Dirt + Clown | You need to put a clown in the dirt if you want to cultivate good crops there. Clowns act as a natural fertilizer, and this will make it super easy to cultivate any crops you could ever want in this dirt. Isn't nature amazing? Imagine burying a dead clown in the dirt and then planting some seeds on top. It's worth it, you think, if it helps cultivate your crops. Before you can start this whole cultivation process however, you have to say bye (ばい) to the clown. Say bye to him, then bash his head in, and drop him in the dirt. Saying bye is polite. Never forget to say bye, even in the middle of a cold-blooded clown murder.
# | 踊 | Dance | おど ; よう | Foot + Mama + Task | Your foot, as your mama says, was given the task to dance. Shake those two foots your mama gave you and dance dance dance! Picture your mama asking you to dance. The two of you pick up and kick your feet to dance, spinning 'round and 'round. You both dance so much that you develop an odor (おど). Not just any odor, an odor particular to stinky dancing feet. Lean down and take a big whiff of your dancing feet. The odor is... HORRIBLE! AHGH!
# | 闇 | Darkness | やみ ; あん, おん | Gate + Sound | This gate makes the sound of darkness. The gate looks like darkness, but it’s even more creepy that it sounds like darkness too. Imagine this gate making an ominous sound. The sound of darkness. Look deep into the darkness of the gate as you hear the sound it makes. Ouummmmm… You decide to taste the darkness and discover that it is so yummy (やみ)! Who knew that darkness was so yummy? Mmm… this darkness tastes so yummy! Take the darkness in your hands. It’s like really dark cotton candy. Imagine eating it and how yummy it is. Keep hearing the sound it’s making as you eat. Yummy!
# | 斜 | Diagonal | しゃ ; なな | Surplus + Ladle | You have a surplus of ladles laid out diagonally in front of you. Why are they diagonal? And why do you have so many ladles? Why the surplus? Hang on, we'll get there. Look at all these ladles lying diagonally in front of you. Pick them up. Feel the wood grain. Wonder why you have so many. In front of this diagonal pattern is a shaman (しゃ) who is currently staring at you. You slowly reach down and turn one of the ladles around, diagonally, and look back up. The shaman's eyes are wide, and now they're scribbling on in a notebook. Uh oh, is this one of those weird tests where they find out if you're the chosen one or some old scholar reincarnated? Who knew laying ladles at diagonal angles could reveal this kinda stuff?!
# | 霜 | Frost | しも | Rain + Tree + Eye | Rain falls off a tree and lands in your eye where it turns to frost. It turns to frost because it’s super cold outside and your body is freezing. The rain that fell off the tree turns to frost as soon as it hits your eye. Feel the rain hit your eye and then crystalize into frost immediately. The rain in your eye is wet, and then very cold as it becomes frost. This whole description is pretty emo. You came up with this whole emo frost idea because you are a shemo (しも). An emo who goes by she pronouns. Picture yourself walking proudly, casting your frost gaze at all who you pass. "Wow look at that frosty, cool shemo. She's sooooo cool!" you hear them whisper. (Haha cool, get it? Because you're frosty and also a little sad, which is totally in when you're a teen.)
# | 穫 | Harvest | かく | Grain + Flowers + Turkey + Stool | You need to feed this grain to a flower wearing turkey on a stool so you start the harvest. Grains don't pick themselves, you have to harvest them. Picture this fat turkey with flowers on its head, sitting on a stool. It's gobbling for grains and you need to be the one who harvests them. You're just starting to harvest the grains when an angry cock (かく) shows up! He's mad because these are his grains and you're about to harvest them and feed them to a turkey instead of him. Imagine an angry cock chasing you around as you try to harvest grain. He keeps pecking you, ouch!
# | 麻 | Hemp | ま ; あさ | Canopy + Tree | This canopy of trees isn't actually a canopy of trees at all. When you look closely, you see these trees are actually giant stalks of hemp. Wow, these hemp plants are so big that they look like trees. But, despite their size they're still just hemp. Who planted all this hemp? Your mama (ま) did. Your mama knew that you were going to like hemp in the future, so she planted these hemp plants for you. What a great mama.
# | 騎 | Horse Riding | き | Horse + Odd | This horse may look odd but it’s actually perfect for horse riding! Look at this odd horse. It's a little odd-looking, but it turned its quirks into strengths and now it's an exceptional horse for horse riding! Before horse riding, you’ll need the key (き) to access the stable and let out the odd horse you'll be riding. Want to ride the odd horse? Then, you must have the key to open its stable!
# | 辱 | Humiliate | じょく ; はずかし | Landslide + Measurement | The landslide measurement humiliates you. You told everyone you couldn't come to work, that your house had been destroyed and your car was carried away, but then scientists measured the landslide, and it only went a few feet. Honestly, that's what you get for lying. But it doesn't make it any less humiliating even if you deserve it. Your friends and coworkers humiliate you more by making jokes (じょく). "Uh oh, I heard it might rain later, I hope you don't drown in the inch of water that's coming!" Imagine all of the cruel jokes people say to humiliate you. Feel your face burn and your stomach flip.
# | 灯 | Lamp | とう ; あかり, とも | Fire + Street | Fire you use to light up the street needs to go in a lamp. Campfires, matches? No, none of those work. You need bright, safe lamps to keep the street nice at night. Picture these lamps lining the street, with their little fires burning brightly. Nowadays we don't have real fire in them, we use electricity! These street lamps were first used in とうきょう. It was the most advanced city after all. And more people were out at night in とうきょう than anywhere else in Japan. So they needed lamps to light things up! Picture とうきょう, not lit up by all of the electricity, signs, shops, and things that light up its streets today, but by old-fashioned fire lamps!
# | 畜 | Livestock | ちく | Mysterious + Rice Paddy | In the mysterious rice paddy there is some livestock. This livestock is also mysterious because no one knows where it came from. The mysterious livestock are only seen in the mysterious rice paddy. How mysterious indeed. Examine this mysterious livestock from a distance. Imagine them floating around the mysterious rice paddy like they aren’t even walking. Hear them moo and oink as well. Your favorite member of the mysterious livestock crew is a little chick (ちく). The chick is very cute and little. The chick is also very mysterious because it floats about without even flapping its little wings. Look at this chick bobbling about in the air. It looks very ephemeral and other worldly. Still a very cute chick though. You want to pet it.
# | 溶 | Melt | よう ; と | Tsunami + Form | The tsunami hits your form and you begin to melt. You are a witch and water makes you melt. The tsunami is a lot of water, so once it touches your form, you begin to melt. Feel the water from the tsunami crashing into your form. Feel the water on your body as your form begins to melt. I’m melting! I’m mellltiinnnggg! The only way to reverse the melt process is to eat some yogurt (よう). The yogurt counteracts the melting from the water and your form will become whole again. Quick, eat some yogurt! Feel the melt begin to reverse as you eat your yogurt. Taste the yogurt on your tongue as your form begins to solidify once again.
# | 蚊 | Mosquito | か | Insect + Writing | The type of insect that ruins your writing is the mosquito. You're trying to write, when you hear that horrible high-pitched mosquito noise in your ear. You jerk your head and swat and it's gone. But when you look down, there's lines all over what you were writing. Imagine sitting at your desk writing when a mosquito starts bzzzzing in your ear. You can't ignore it, it's gonna bite you. So you flail around helplessly. That mosquito noise sounds like it's driving a tiny car (か) in your ear. How are you supposed to write with a bug driving around going bzzz bzzz like a revving car? You can't. You can't write like this. You need to kill the mosquito and its little car too.
# | 帳 | Notebook | ちょう ; とばり | Towel + Long | Take your towel and make it long. It has to be longer than that! For this will be your notebook, which you will write all your notes in. You are making the towel really long, because it's white and it might be good for writing in. It's going to become your notebook. Inside your long towel notebook you just write the same name over and over again: "Mrs. Chou" (ちょう). Something bad is going to happen, and you need to warn everybody. It's her, it's her, it's her. Mrs. Chou, Mrs. Chou, Mrs. Chou!
# | 塗 | Paint | と ; ぬ | Tsunami + Surplus + Dirt | A tsunami surplus will cover all the dirt with paint. The surplus of tsunamis will strike the paint factories first (everyone knows paint factories are built close to the ocean). Then the paint will flow over all the dirt and paint it a ton of rainbow colors. Picture all of the different colors of paint being swept along by tsunami after tsunami, painting the dirt as it goes. You touch the paint in the dirt with your toe (と) to see if it's still wet. It is. The paint is still very wet and now your toe looks like a tiny rainbow. Imagine dipping each of your toes into the paint-dirt, one by one, to paint each of them a different color. Why are you doing this?
# | 貼 | Paste | は ; ちょう | Shellfish + Fortune | Your shellfish are worth a fortune because you decided to paste your fortune to the shellfish. Picture all of your riches, your money, your jewels. They're all pasted directly onto all of your shellfish! You're a little crazy, which is why you decided to use paste to paste your entire fortune to these shellfish, and as you paste each one you yell out, "Ha (は)!" Paste. "Ha ha!" Paste paste. "Ha ha ha!!" PASTE PASTE PASTE.
# | 輝 | Radiance | き ; かがや | Sunlight + Forehead + Car | The sunlight shines on your forehead in your car with a great radiance. The car you are in is a convertible, so the sunlight shines right onto your big bald forehead. The sun has a pretty powerful radiance as it is, but the sheen from the sunlight hitting your forehead is the most powerful radiance ever witnessed by man. Imagine this radiance emanating from your shiny dome. The radiance is blinding! This radiance is the key (き) to powering your car. Your car runs on reflected solar energy, and the radiance coming from your forehead is the most powerful source of radiant sunlight ever imagined. Your forehead is a perfect key for this car. Point your shiny forehead, filled with radiance, at your car. Hear the engine start and jump to life as you power it with the reflected sunlight from your forehead.
# | 憶 | Recollection | おく | Soul + Idea | When your soul has an idea it's just a recollection of something you already know. Only your brain can have original ideas, so when your soul tries to come up with one, it's just a recollection of something you thought before now. When you have a recollection of some idea or thing in the past, it's just your soul saying, hey remember this? Let's not forget this. Your soul is sending you a recollection right now of... your past life as a farmer in Oklahoma (おく). You see yourself farming and sweating and living a wonderful life. Hmm, maybe you should move to Oklahoma and live the simple life again. Imagine recollecting a past life in Oklahoma. Life was simple and nice. You should consider taking this as a sign to move there again!
# | 悔 | Regret | かい ; くや, く | Soul + Every | If you try to put your soul into everything, you'll regret it. It's not so much that putting your soul into things is bad, but every single thing? You'll burn out immediately. You won't be able to be good at any of those things. And you'll regret all the time you wasted trying to be the best at everything. Imagine if you went full force into everything you've ever even thought of doing. Imagine how burnt out your soul would be. Imagine all the regret you'd have that you didn't just stick to one thing and do it well. The regret is too strong for you to ignore, so you decide to drop everything but kayaking (かい). If there's one thing you refuse to regret, it's your bright orange kayak and all the friends you made at kayaking club. Throw everything you regret away. Only kayak from now on.
# | 耐 | Resistant | たい ; た | Rake + Measurement | You take a rake in for a measurement but it is resistant. The rake doesn’t want to have its measurements taken. The rake is resistant to have any measurement taken because it feels inferior to the other rakes and doesn’t want to be embarrassed if it ends up being smaller than the others. Try and move this rake over to the measurement table. It is resistant so you have a hard time moving it. Imagine the rake struggling and resisting endlessly. Because the rake is persistently resistant, you eventually tie it to the table with your neck tie (たい). The tie won’t hold for long, so you need to take each measurement quickly. See yourself tying the tie around the rake and attaching it to the measurement table. The rake is still jostling around, but the tie keeps it from moving about too terribly much.
# | 盾 | Shield | じゅん ; たて | Cliff + Pope | On a cliff, the pope is holding a shield. The pope is near the edge of the cliff and is using the shield to fend off demons. The demons want to shove the pope off the cliff, but the pope is using his holy shield of popery to fend them off. Imagine the shield glowing brightly as hymns play in the background. The demons try to get close to the pope to shove him off the cliff but the holy shield is too bright and popey. The light of the pope's shield begins to fade. The shield's holy power is waning! Just as the demons are about to push him off the cliff, the sun begins to rise. That's right! It's June (じゅん) and summer has just begun. The pope's shield reflects the power of June's bright sun into the eyes of the demons, casting them off the cliff behind him and back into hell! This pope would have been in a lot of trouble if June's summer sun hadn't risen at just the right moment. His shield would have become useless and he might have been shoved off the cliff if it was a less sunny month.
# | 蛇 | Snake | へび ; じゃ | Insect + Roof + Spoon | There is an insect on the roof in a spoon. It's there for the eating, and it's how you plan to attract a snake to your roof. Snakes love insects, especially when they're ready to eat on a spoon. But, snakes don't usually go on top of the roof, so that's why you have to tempt one with an insect in a spoon. Why don't you just bring a snake up to the roof yourself? Because snakes are heavy (へび). Especially big snakes. They're really, really hebi.
# | 班 | Squad | はん | King + Knife | If the king gives you a knife you become part of his squad. Every king has a knife squad or two protecting him and making sure his subjects keep in line. Imagine if you were given a knife and allowed into the king's squad. Would you let the power corrupt you? This squad is led by Han (はん) Solo, so it's basically a 50/50 shot that the king is gonna die. I'm not saying Han Solo is a bad squad leader, but his track record isn't the greatest. I mean, best case scenario the king gets stabbed in the arm and they manage to win.
# | 餓 | Starve | が ; う | Eat + Ego | If you have nothing to eat but your ego, you'll starve. You can't eat it, and your ego is keeping you from accepting actual food or help from other people. You have to check your ego at the door, because you'll definitely starve otherwise. You starve (thanks ego) and turn into a gargoyle (が). As your stomach aches, your skin turns gray and you slowly harden into a crouched position. Now your starved body has been moved to the top of a castle, where you scare away people and birds with your loud grumbling stomach and scary face.
# | 飢 | Starve | き ; う | Eat + Table | You’re so hungry that you eat a table so you won’t starve. If you don’t eat this table, you will most definitely starve, so you eat the table to stay alive. You don’t want to starve, do you? Feel your tummy gurgle in pain. You gotta eat this table. Taste the dry wood taste on your tongue as you eat the table and get splinters in your tongue and gums. After you finish the table, you still feel like you might starve so you decide to eat every key (き) off your key ring. One by one, you eat each and every key so you don’t starve. Imagine eating every key. Taste the cold metal on your tongue. After you swallow each key, you hear it clink against the other keys already in your tummy. Clink!
# | 迅 | Swift | じん | Scooter + Cliff + Cross | You drive your scooter off this cliff, holding your cross tight to your chest, at a swift speed. Imagine swiftly shooting off the side of the cliff on your scooter, holding the cross for dear life. Because you had such a swift take off, you didn't notice that your jeans (じん) were ripped right off your body. Until now. Now you're swiftly shooting through the sky as your jeans flutter down toward the ground behind you. You also feel a swift breeze on all of your downstairs bits now.
# | 脅 | Threaten | きょう ; おど, おびや | Power + Moon | There's power, power, and power stacked on top of the moon, threatening to bring it down! The moon actually looks like it wants to threaten you now too. It seems to have grown a big, smiling, angry mouth and it's way closer to you than you've ever seen it. All that power is radiating out of it and down towards you, threateningly. This extra power-filled moon is now trying to threaten the safety of きょうと. All of きょうと is shaking and getting dark as the moon comes closer and closer. Picture the powerful moon, threatening to crush きょうと and all its residents. If only a small green boy could turn back time and save everyone from this powerful moon!
# | 尽 | Use Up, Exhaust | じん ; つ | Shrimp + Ice | You see shrimp on ice at the market in the morning. "I'll get some on the way home" you think to yourself. Later that evening, you see no shrimp, just ice. The supply of shrimp has been exhausted. It's all gone! You never thought they'd use up their shrimp supply so quickly. Imagine the lack of shrimp on the ice. All you wanted was some delicious shrimp for dinner, but now it's all gone. How could the store use up its shrimp supply so quickly? Suddenly you notice the worker behind the fish counter has shrimp stuffed into their jeans (じん) . Aha! The culprit! Imagine the worker's jeans and how gross they are with all those shrimp stuffed into them. Yuck!
# | 概 | Approximation | がい ; おおむ | Tree + Root + Fang | Bite a tree's root with your fang to get an approximation on its age. It won't be exact, this isn't scientific or anything, but it will be pretty close. Once you have an approximation on the age, you'll be able to come up with an approximation on how much it's worth too. As you're recording your approximation down,  somebody comes up and shouts, “Hey guy (がい)! I’ll give you $10,000 for that tree there, guy!” This guy must be crazy. That’s much more than your approximation of the value of this thing. But you sell it to the guy anyway. The guy is trying to look at your approximation now, while calling YOU "guy" over and over, and you just want him to buy it and leave you alone!
# | 拘 | Arrest | こう ; かか | Fingers + Paragraph | You run your fingers along the words of a  paragraph. You are learning about the law because you plan to arrest somebody. Imagine reading the paragraph very slowly. You find your answer. It looks like you'll be able to arrest that person... Who do you want to arrest? You want to arrest こういち. Even though he's started wars, created a religion, and trapped a child in a cavity, it's going to be tricky to arrest him because he's the emperor now. Still, according to this paragraph you're running your fingers through, you can do it. You can arrest こういち.
# | 煮 | Boil | に ; しゃ | Someone + Boil | If someone wants to boil, you let them boil! There's someone in your face yelling about how they want to boil! You yell back, "Okay, if you want to boil, just boil!" Welp, the pot is at a rolling boil and your knee (に) is in there. The person wasn't saying they wanted to boil, they said they wanted to boil someone. And that meant you. Well, your knee anyway. Once your knee is done boiling, the person kneels down in front of you and presents it on a platter, mocking you, since you can't kneel anymore. You should pay more attention to what's going on from now on or you could find yourself in... HOT WATER. Ohohoho.
# | 覆 | Capsize, Cover | ふく ; おお, くつがえ | Helicopter + Loiter + Black Hole | If a helicopter loiters near a black hole then it's going to capsize. I mean, yeah, it's not a boat, but just look, that's what's happening! That helicopter is going down! If you want to save it you better cover up the black hole! The only way to save it from capsizing is to cover it right up! Imagine trying to cover up a black hole so that the helicopter doesn't capsize. It's one or the other, dude. Cover or capsize. You decide. You're doing your best to cover the black hole to stop the helicopter from capsizing but it's not working! “F**k you (ふく) black hole!" you shout. You just want to cover it up! You just want to do the right thing! Man, f**k you you, black hole. F**k you you. Making that helicopter capsize and then refusing to be covered?
# | 駒 | Chess Piece | こま ; く | Horse + Paragraph | The horse who can write a paragraph gets to be a chess piece. Only the most erudite of horses gets selected to be a chess piece. The knight’s chess piece is represented by a horse, and for a horse to earn this honor, they must first write a paragraph explaining why they deserve the honor. Imagine a horse trying to write a paragraph about why it deserves to be a chess piece. See the horse struggle with his hooves to write out a paragraph as he neighs in nervous frustration. Upon being told that he will never be a chess piece, the horse slips into a coma (こま). The horse will never awaken from this coma as he knows he will never fulfill his dream of becoming a chess piece, so he has nothing to live for. See this horse in its coma. You feel bad that it will never be able to be a chess piece, but this is a bit dramatic.
# | 悟 | Comprehension | ご ; さと | Soul + Five + Mouth | Your soul connects to five different mouths, enhancing your comprehension. You can easily comprehend what each of those souls belonging to those mouths wants and feels deep down. Imagine being able to comprehend everything about not one, but five other people. Deep down you can feel everything they think and feel. Your comprehension is the strongest with the fifth mouth, belonging to Godzilla (ご). You finally get why he wants to destroy buildings and cities. Your comprehension of Godzilla reveals so much: he's warning the Japanese people about the use of new technology and warfare and experimentation. He just wants everyone to be able to comprehend these new, seemingly incomprehensible things!
# | 慌 | Confused, Bewildered | こう ; あわ | Soul + Wild | Your soul is going wild because you're confused. If you're confused, it's usually because you don't know what's going on or what to do. This makes the soul inside your body go absolutely wild! Think back to the last time you were confused. Remember how your soul felt? You were so confused it went wild and made you feel dumb and bad, like a wild person. Whenever you're confused, こういち appears to offer you guidance. He's confused a lot, so he knows how to help. And knowledge offered by こういち is the best medicine for confusion. Imagine being confused about Japanese, for example. In your confusion everything seems scary and wild and your soul is utterly bewildered, but then here comes こういち. He sits with you and pats your back and tries to help you stop being so confused.
# | 謀 | Conspire | ぼう ; はか | Say + Sweet + Tree | Watch what you say to what appears to be a sweet tree, because that tree will 100% conspire against you. Trees may look all sweet and innocent, like they aren't listening to every word you say, but it's a front! They're conspiring against you!! They'll blackmail you and take everything!!! Now you're getting it! That tree is trying to conspire against you and take you down. Take your bowling (ぼう) ball and bowl it and all its friends down! Watch as the conspiratorial tree and all it's gossiping friends are bowled over by your bowling ball. Phew. You're safe from the trees. For now.
# | 鶴 | Crane | つる ; かく | Roof + Turkey + Bird | On the roof there's some type of turkey bird, but thinner and longer. You look closer and realize it's a crane. Picture the beautiful black and white crane dancing gracefully on the roof. Now that you know what it is, you feel a little bad about calling it a turkey bird. The crane leans down toward you from its roof perch and squawks, "Too rude (つる)!" You're shocked! You didn't know the crane could speak English, but even worse, it knew you called it a turkey bird. The crane keeps saying you're too rude whenever other people come close so they know what kind of person you are. Yikes, you really shouldn't have gotten on this crane's bad side.
# | 拓 | Cultivation | たく | Fingers + Stone | You use your fingers and a stone to begin cultivation of the land. You use your fingers to till the soil, the stone to flatten the ground, and you carefully poke the seeds into the dirt and then use the stone to smash them further down. Imagine being in a field, using your fingers and a stone to cultivate the whole thing, by hand. Cultivation is suddenly halted because a tack (たく) sticks into your finger. You pull the tack out, throw it away and start cultivation again when... ouch! There's another tack. This field is full of tacks! Now cultivation is going to involve getting all the tacks out of here, preferably with the stone and not your fingers, so they don't get stuck anymore.
# | 衰 | Decline | すい ; おとろ | Lid + Sun + Kick | You take a lid, and aiming it at the sun you kick it into the air and eventually it begins to decline and crashes into the sun, causing it to supernova. Imagine kicking this lid so hard that it flies into space. See it fly up to the peak of its arch, then watch as it begins the decline until it finally collides with the sun. As you watch the lid decline, keep in mind that the sun radical has its middle line extending outside the box on both sides. This is because the sun is going supernova. Pew! As the lid begins to decline in the sky, you realize what’s going to happen so you attempt to swing (すい) to safety. Swing on some vines in the direction opposite of the sun. You know that once that lid finishes its decline and collides with the sun, there’s gonna be trouble. Imagine swinging on these vines as you hear the sun explode and go supernova behind you. Swing faster! Swing faster!
# | 奨 | Encourage | しょう | Commander + Big | A commander who's big will use his size to encourage his troops. "Look at me! You can be a big commander someday too!" he shouts, encouraging everyone. He encourages the Shougun (しょう) too! You've never seen the Shougun express any emotion other than intense indifference or intense dislike. Picture the encouraged Shougun: his eyes are shining with tears, his heart is pounding, he's been encouraged to be better!
# | 抽 | Extract | ちゅう | Fingers + Reason | Your fingers give you a good reason to extract things. You extract juice from fruits, oil from seeds, and coffee from beans. Why? Because you have fingers! That's your reason. Imagine having fingers that work like a magic wand of extraction. With a flick of your fingers, you could extract any radical out of a kanji too. How could these special fingers not be a reason for you to extract? With these fingers, you can't stop extracting! Your magic fingers can even extract the essence out of living things, so you decide to extract some from Chewbacca (ちゅう). You always thought a nice Chewbacca extract could take your cookies to the next level. It'll help offset the sweetness and make them extra chewy (or chewbacca-y!). Taste that chewy goodness in every bite. All you need is a dash of Chewbacca extract.
# | 淡 | Faint | たん ; あわ | Tsunami + Fire | A tsunami and a couple fires run into each other. They cancel each other out completely, and the remainder left behind is a faint remnant of what was once there. You go to see if you can find any remainder of the fire + tsunami battle. You can, but it's so faint. Just like the tsunami and fire canceling each other out, leaving a faint remainder of what was, your tan (たん) is extremely faint as well. Look at your skin. It has such a faint tint.
# | 礎 | Foundation, Cornerstone | そ ; いしずえ | Stone + Tree + Coat Rack | There’s a stone, a tree, another tree, and a coat rack. That stone and two trees will make the perfect foundation, or cornerstone, for a house to put that coat rack in! This stone is flat and heavy and both of the trees are flexible and durable. Imagine making a foundation with the stone and the two trees so you’ll have a place for your coat rack. Feel the wood grain and cold stone against your skin as you move them around to form the foundation. After you finish the foundation, the only step that's left is to wash the entire thing with soap (そ). Imagine getting on your hands and knees, rubbing a bar of soap all over the foundation you built. The soap gets into all the nooks and crannies in the wood and stone. Now if a coat falls off the coat rack onto the floor, you just add water and poof! Clean!
# | 陛 | Highness | へい | Building + Compare + Dirt | Compare a building to some dirt and you'll see the difference between you and His and Her Highness. You live outside and sleep on the dirt. But His and Her Highness both live in a huge building. Picture Her Highness, high up in her building. Now compare her home and life to yours, you dirt person. I bet His Highness has never had to sleep in hay (へい) either, like you do every night. Hay is what you use as a pillow, mattress, blanket. Basically hay and dirt are all you have. Unlike His Highness. Picture His and Her Highness coming out of their huge building and walking by you in your hay pile. "My goodness, Highness, have you ever seen such a dirty, fluffy creature?" "My no, dear, let's move quickly to remove it from our sight!"
# | 浸 | Immersed | しん ; ひた, つ | Tsunami + Wolverine + Forehead + Stool | In the event of a tsunami, Wolverine, your forehead, and a stool will all be immersed in it. You will become immersed in the tsunami after it hits because tsunamis are gigantic and bring a lot of water. Now you and your forehead are immersed in the tsunami along with Wolverine and a stool. Feel the water all around you as you become immersed in this tsunami. See Wolverine trying to swim his way to the top as you watch the stool floating about in the water. Still immersed, the stool floats over and hits you in the shin (しん). The tsunami gave the stool a good push and while it was fully immersed, it ran into your shin. It really hurts. Hear the stool crack against your shin and feel the pain erupt through your leg. You try to scream but you’re under water so you just get a big mouthful of tsunami.
# | 劣 | Inferiority | れつ ; おと | Few + Power | The few members of society without power suffer from severe inferiority complexes. Most people in this world have lots of power, so the few that do not feel quite inferior. It is this feeling of inferiority that fuels their inferiority complexes. Imagine you are one of the few without power. Feel the inferiority crushing down on you. It feels terrible and there is nothing you can do about it. Since you suffer from such extreme feelings of inferiority, when someone offers you and your friends the chance to gain power, you yell “Let’s (れつ) go!” without a second thought. “Let’s go, guys! Come on! Power awaits us!” Let’s go, let’s go! Time’s a wastin’! I’m tired of this inferiority and want to gain some power!
# | 勘 | Intuition | かん | Crab Trap + Power | This crab trap has the power of intuition. By the power of intuition, this crab trap can trap like, every crab. Through intuition, it knows where the crabs will go and how they will react, so it is much easier to trap them. Look at this crab trap and see it visibly glowing with intuition. Its powers of intuition are so strong that you can actually see it shimmering with intuition as it expertly traps all those crabs. This crab trap's intuition powers were extracted from Genghis Khan (かん) himself. And as we all know by now, Genghis Khan was the absolute master of intuition, he always knew what his enemies and his allies were about to do. Genghis Khan probably has the strongest intuition of anyone in history. This crab trap is getting close though.
# | 隔 | Isolate | かく ; へだ | Building + Bully | A building that has a bully will isolate itself. Building have feelings like people, you know. Picture a single building, isolated from the rest of the city and those mean, bully buildings that live there. The isolated building only has one companion, and it's the cock (かく) that lives inside of it. Picture the sun rising behind an isolated building. A cock lets out a cry from the roof. It's a sad and lonely scene.
# | 蹴 | Kick | け ; しゅう | Foot + Capital + Dog | In the foot capital, it's tough to be a dog because you're always getting kicked. In the foot capital, you can only use your feet. So petting dogs looks a lot like kicking them. Imagine yourself kicking a kettle (け). There's nothing that's more satisfying to kick than a good ol' kettle, you know? You just love how a kettle gets dented as you kick it around.
# | 桑 | Mulberry | くわ ; そう | Stool + Tree | You take a stool, another stool, and yet another stool and stack them on top of a tree to make a mulberry bush. This is how mulberry bushes are made. You take three stools and you put them atop a tree. Imagine putting three stools on top of a tree and watching it transform into a mulberry. The science of nature! Your mulberry tree then produces a quantity (くわ) of mulberries. Yum. Imagine the huge quantity of mulberries growing from your stool tree. Imagine picking them all. What an enormous quantity of mulberries you now have.
# | 尼 | Nun | に ; あま | Flag + Spoon | You give a flag and a spoon to a nun as an offering. You give her this flag and this spoon because they are very precious to you and you want to show the nun how serious you are about repenting for your evil deeds. Imagine handing the nun your country’s flag. And also a spoon that is very valuable to you. Imagine getting down on one knee as you do so. You’re getting down on one knee (に) as you present the flag and the spoon to the nun. The nun accepts your offer and takes your flag and spoon from you. Your soul is saved! Feel your knee digging into the cold floor as you present your offerings to the nun. You feel slightly sad as she takes your precious belongings from you.
# | 珠 | Pearl | しゅ ; たま | King + Slide + Jet | The king takes his slide into his private jet and is given a pearl as a gift, by you! He's letting you ride in his jet today, and you were told the king should be presented with a pearl as soon as he boards. Imagine giving this gorgeous white pearl to the king after he slides down his slide and boards the jet. See his king face light up as he sees the pretty pearl. The king takes the pearl and tosses it into a chute (しゅ) next to the slide he took to get into the jet. You watch as the pearl goes down, down, down until it lands into a huge vat of pearls. Oh. I guess the king didn't need your pearl, since he has a pearl chute to get them off his jet before takeoff. You feel silly. And you kind of want to jump into the pearl chute yourself.
# | 壇 | Podium | だん | Dirt + Lid + Times + Dawn | On the dirt there is a lid trying to cover the number of times the dawn has risen here. You walk over and pull the lid off and the whole thing transforms into a podium. A podium for the dawn to tell you how many times it's risen over this dirt over and over again. It just keeps going and you realize the lid was here because this dang podium can't seem to keep a lid on it! (Get it? Figure of speech!) This kanji also just... really looks like a podium right? With a guy wearing a graduation cap, pointing toward you, in the crowd. You listen to what the podium has to say for so long you finally can't help but ask, "Who are you?" "I'm the dawn (だん), of course!" And this is my podium where I spread the good news about the dawn! I guess that makes sense. This podium is by the dawn for the dawn.
# | 陶 | Pottery | とう | Building + Prison + Can | The only type of can you'll be building in prison is one made of pottery. Do you honestly think they would let you have anything made of metal or plastic? No, too dangerous. You have to make all of your cans and plates and underpants the old-fashioned pottery way. Picture the first piece of pottery you ever made. Feel it in your hands. At least you've learned something new while you've been stuck in prison. You get so good at pottery that the guards start to notice and offer to sell what you make in とうきょう. とうきょう is a big pottery town, after all. You'll make a fortune! Well... the guards will at least. Selling your prison pottery in とうきょう might even help you get out faster. Yippee!
# | 妃 | Princess, Queen | ひ ; きさき | Woman + Oneself | A woman sees herself (oneself) as a princess or a queen. As women should! Just remember, when you're around other women (and woman-aligned peoples), it's important to treat each other like princess and queens, not just oneself. All of us princesses and queens share a special heat (ひ). When we see another princess or queen that heat passes through us and we nod to one another. All princess and queens can feel the heat coming off of the others.
# | 刈 | Prune | か | Treasure + Knife | Take your greatest treasure, hold a knife nice and close to it, and prune away all the weak and dead bits. All treasures need to be taken care of, no matter what they are. Prune away anything that isn't necessary. Currently, you want to prune your greatest treasure: your car (か). Your car is made of wood, and it keeps trying to grow new buds and branches, so you have to prune them off. You want your car to be small and sleek, not a giant truck, so you have to carefully prune it when it grows too much.
# | 准 | Semi, Ratify | じゅん | Ice + Turkey | Put a turkey on ice and it will only get semi frozen. You add more ice, and it stays the same. Only some of it will freeze. What the heck! Imagine covering a turkey in ice and every time you check it, it's only semi frozen. It doesn't matter what you do, it just refuses to freeze all the way through. Finally you realize it will only semi freeze because it's June (じゅん)! It's too hot out for your turkey to freeze all the way. The ice keeps melting off the top and semi thawing it! The lesson is to never try to freeze something in June. If you do it will only semi freeze.
# | 唯 | Solely | ゆい ; ただ | Mouth + Turkey | The mouth of that turkey is solely his. It’s very unique, so that mouth could belong to no other turkey but him. That mouth is solely his. Imagine what makes this turkey’s mouth so unique. This beak is solely his. It belongs to no other. This turkey is the only turkey with a mouth like his. You traveled a long way to see this turkey and the mouth that is solely his but you missed your exit on the highway and you have to hang a U-ey (ゆい). You know what hang a U-ey means, right? It’s making a U-turn. Well, you have to hang a U-ey on the highway so you can get off at the right spot to see this turkey and the mouth that is solely his. Imagine hanging a U-ey on the highway. Hear your tires screech as you turn around and get off where you’re supposed to.
# | 剛 | Sturdy | ごう | Hill + Knife | A hill knife is the most sturdy knife you can find. The reason hill knives are so sturdy is because they are shaped like hills. Very wide, very thick, not so long. So, they don't break and are more sturdy. This sturdy (but strangely shaped) knife is used by Grandpa ごういち. Imagine Grandpa ごういち rolling the knife back and forth over various things to cut them. "I love my sturdy hill knife," he says.
# | 征 | Subjugate | せい | Loiter + Correct | If someone loiters it's correct to subjugate them. You can't just let people do whatever they want. If it isn't correct to loiter here, then it IS correct to subjugate them, and force them to do what you want. You control them now. And they're gonna get it! You subjugate these loiterers with your holy blue saber (せい)! It's the correct thing to do, after all, and you were given this saber all those levels ago because you did the correct thing. As you swing your saber around, subjugating the loiterers, and making them do as you say, you remind yourself that this is correct. And if it's correct, you have to use your saber to enforce it.
# | 誓 | Vow | せい ; ちか | Fingers + Axe + Say | With your fingers under an axe, you say a vow. A vow is a sacred promise, so you have to be really serious when you say one. That's why you do it with an axe hovering above your fingers—it's a reminder that if you break this vow your fingers are gonna get chopped off. Picture the axe hovering above your fingers. Now say the vow. But don't lie. The axe knows when you're lying. When you finish your vow, you take out your holy blue saber (せい) and cut the axe in half! You know you're never going to break your vow, and if you do, you'll use your own saber to cut off your fingers. Imagine what it would be like to slice off your own fingers with the saber you've carried for so long. You better not break that vow.
# | 俗 | Vulgar | ぞく | Leader + Valley | The leader of this valley is very vulgar. The name of the valley is Vulgar Valley, so it makes sense for its leader to be very vulgar. Imagine meeting the leader of Vulgar Valley. Imagine all the vulgar things he says to prove he is worthy of being the leader of Vulgar Valley. He is so very, very vulgar. This vulgar leader leads his Bosozoku (ぞく) bike gang through Vulgar Valley, patrolling the area and spreading vulgarity as he goes. Hear the motorcycles rev and purr as they carouse the Vulgar Valley. Hear the leader screaming vulgar things as he and his Bosozoku bike gang ride all around.
# | 潤 | Watered | じゅん ; うるお, うる | Tsunami + Gate + King | A tsunami at the gate of the king makes sure all of his plants get watered. The gate prevents the tsunami from damaging anything inside the king’s home, and the plants around the gate get watered by the water of the tsunami. Hear the tsunami crash into the gate as you see the water slosh around and make sure that all of the king’s plants get good and watered. These plants are getting watered in June (じゅん), the month they need watering the most. June is a hot month, so it’s good that this tsunami came and got the king’s plants watered when it did. Again, watch and hear the tsunami crashing into the gate and getting the plants watered. This time, remember that the month is June and it is very hot and sticky outside. You’re sweating and very hot.
# | 偶 | Accidentally | ぐう ; たま | Leader + Splinter | The leader, Master Splinter (the rat from Ninja Turtles) isn't even supposed to exist. He exists because someone accidentally poured ooze on him. Imagine someone accidentally spilling ooze on a rat, then watch the rat turn into a sentient rat martial artist. But really, if you do something accidentally, it's probably a good (ぐう) thing in a way. You learn a bit about how you can improve yourself so you don't do it again, or in Splinter's case, it's just a good mistake! However you look at it, try to make this accident be a good accident.
# | 巧 | Adept | こう ; うま, たく | Construction + Ground + Prison | The construction of an underground prison will be done by someone who is adept at it. And that adept person is you! You're an expert when it comes to constructing underground prisons, so you've been hired for this job. Good luck! Adept at constructing underground prisons, you've caught the eye of Emperor こういち, the royal underground prison enthusiast. With a dignified nod, Emperor こういち entrusts you with the grand project of constructing an underground prison, confident that the adept builder will make prisoners feel right at home in their new subterranean digs. Hint: When you see 工 in a kanji it will often take the こう reading.
# | 鰐 | Alligator, Crocodile | わに | Fish + Mouth + Two + Prison | A fish with two mouths has the number two on it because it's in prison (that's its prison number). Who put the poor two-mouthed fish in prison? An alligator. Because alligators hate two-mouthed fish. How the alligator wishes it had a second mouth like the fish with two mouths, prisoner number 2! It believes that with another mouth, it would be the most talked-about predator, so it imprisons the two-mouthed fish out of jealousy. The reading is the same as the わに in "WaniKani." Ever heard of it? So long as you've ever used WaniKani, you probably know the reading of the word alligator.
# | 把 | Bundle, Grasp | は, わ | Fingers + Bed | Put your fingers on the bed, grasp the sheets and bundle them up. Now you can do the laundry! Imagine pressing your fingers into the bed, grasping tightly and ripping the sheets free. Then you bundle them up into your arms so you can stuff them into the washing machine. In between grasping and bundle-ing, you shout HA (は)! That's when the sheets come off the bed. The next time you grasp your bedsheets yell "Ha!" as you yank them off. Now chuckle a bit, ha ha ha, as you bundle them up into a ball. You can't beat me, bedsheets.
# | 駄 | Burdensome | だ, た | Horse + Fat | A horse that is fat is a burdensome animal. A fat horse. So burdensome. Not to mention the burden on the horse on top of the fatness. But you have to be nice to the burdensome horse because this horse is your dad (だ). Go visit your dad the burdensome horse because you have to visit your dad. It's weird because you're a human and he's a horse.
# | 洞 | Cave | どう ; ほら | Tsunami + Same | A tsunami is the same as a cave. Because, if a wave is big enough, it will curl over on itself, creating a sort of cave within the wave. That's why it's the same as a cave! Also, imagine a tsunami hitting a cave, becoming the same as the cave (since a cave will shape it). Best way to remember the reading for this kanji is to think about how the shape of a cave is the shape of a doughnut (どう). Also note that the 同 part of this kanji gives away the reading as well. 同 and 洞 have the same readings!
# | 伯 | Chief | はく, お | Leader + White | The leader all in white is the chief. All the other leaders are wearing some other color, but that's how you tell the chief apart from the other leaders. Imagine all the leaders standing around, then the chief person standing there all in white. The reading is the same as 白, which is included in this kanji. The other reading is お, and it's like the honorific 御, in a way. You'd want to be polite to someone who is the chief ______, right? That's why it could be お, too. You'll learn more about which reading to use when the vocabulary roll around. In the meantime, try to remember both of them the best you can!
# | 唐 | China, Sudden | とう ; から | Canopy + Brush + Mouth | Under a canopy, someone thinking with a brush in their mouth has a sudden thought, and uses the brush to write the word "China". Thus, China was born. All of a sudden China existed! Pretty crazy, right? Believe it or not, this sudden invention of China happened in とうきょう. Well, it wasn't とうきょう yet. And it was a traveling Chinese person who did it. But you know legends, they're just all over the place. Oh my gosh, can you imagine how mad China will be when you tell them they were invented in とうきょう? Maybe you shouldn't tell anyone this story. Just keep it between you and me, kay?
# | 彰 | Clear | しょう | Chapter + Hair | You want to write a chapter about hair in your new book so you have to make sure it's really clear. Clear enough so that ANYbody can read it. Your writing is so clear and concise that just about everyone does read it. Well, everyone with hair that is. Your clear writing got the attention of the Shougun (しょう) and now he's at your door once again. Although, this time he's angrier than usual. His hair also looks awful. He took your advice after reading the book and cut his entire ponytail off. Picture the Shougun angrily yelling at you about his hair disaster! The only good thing he can say about your book is that it gave clear directions.
# | 漫 | Comic | まん | Tsunami + Sun + Net + Stool | A tsunami crashes into the sun, which is then caught in a net and tied to a stool! Wait a second... this doesn't sound realistic, it sounds really comic! That's because it's from that comic book about a pirate you're always reading! Imagine reading this issue of your favorite stretchy pirate boy comic. Lumpy uses his long arms as a net, traps the sun and ties it to the stool right as the tsunami hits. What kind of crazy trouble is he getting into this time?! Comics are manga (まん) in Japan, whether they're comic or serious. You've known about Japanese comics or manga for a long time, and now you can read them too. Look how far you've come. Wow, what a journey. I'm just so proud of you, kiddo.
# | 諮 | Consult | し ; はか | Say + Next + Mouth | Watch what you say to the next mouth over, because they hired you to consult them. The person with the next mouth in the room is waiting for you to open yours to consult them. He'll do whatever you say. You panic, and consult the man into buying a sheep (し). He was asking for love advice, so I guess you consulted that he give a sheep to the person he likes? Uh oh. Remind me never to consult with you when I'm feeling unsure about things.
# | 廷 | Courts | てい | Yoga + King | The Yoga King presides over all courts: law, imperial, and so forth. In this case, you've met him in the court of law, where he is judge, jury, and executioner. Picture him sitting above you in the judge's chair in court. He's about to make his judgement. The court of the Yoga King is against you. You have to turn this around, so you start pushing tater (てい) tots into his tater-tot-hole shaped mouth. "I hereby sentence you to..." *ploop* "Ooh, this is really good. I hereby sentence..." *ploop* "Wow, are these tater tots? Court dismissed."
# | 蟹 | Crab | かに | Angle + Sword + Cow + Insect | This is an animal with an angled sword claw that's filled with cow meat but looks like an insect. What kind of animal is that? It's a crab. If you think about the different parts you can see why this is a crab. A delicious, delicious crab. The reading is the same as the かに in WaniKani. If you've used WaniKani before, you probably know this reading, hopefully. All praise the great allicrab!
# | 堰 | Dam | せき ; えん | Dirt + Cage + Sun + Woman | A woman is making a dirt cage in the sun. She's using it to trap water, making this a dirt dam. If you think about it, dams are just dirt cages anyway. Picture the woman working tirelessly in the hot sun, moving and shaping the dirt around this river into a dam to make a pond. Something about the woman working hard to build this dam makes her super sexy (せき) to you. Maybe it's because the sun is so bright, making her shine, or maybe it's because hard work is attractive. Who knows. If you wanna be sexy maybe you should build a dam too.
# | 漂 | Drift | ひょう ; ただよ | Tsunami + Helicopter + Jackhammer | If a tsunami hits your helicopter while you are jackhammering, it will drift out to sea. What were you doing with a jackhammer at a time like this? Now your helicopter is drifting away! Picture your helicopter as it drifts out to sea with the tsunami. As it drifts away you shout, "Heyooo! (ひょう)." You know the helicopter probably can't hear you (or understand you) but maybe it will turn on and stop drifting away if you shout it enough. "Heyoooo stop drifting awaaaay!!"
# | 淀 | Eddy | よど | Tsunami + Roof + Correct | A tsunami hits a roof and then corrects itself. This causes it to swirl around, creating an eddy. An eddy requires water to change direction and then twirl around, and when the tsunami hits the roof, that's exactly what it does. There is a person trying to create an eddy with a tsunami, and when their roof correction device is shown to be effective, they sing: "This is how you do (よど) it." Imagine them singing this, emphasizing the "you do" part of the song as they watch the eddy being formed.
# | 堤 | Embankment | てい ; つつみ | Dirt + Sun + Correct | The correct way to block the sun with dirt is with an embankment. Build a huge, sloping embankment correctly and the sun won't be able to bother you ever again! Imagine an embankment made of dirt, in the correct place, blocking the sun from your eyes. Unfortunately, building a correct embankment doesn't just take dirt, but tater (てい) tots too. You pile up the dirt and the tater tots so the embankment can be nice and high. Picture an embankment made of dirt and tater tots. Not like, tater tots just thrown in the embankment, you probably see those all the time. But dirt AND tater tots in the embankment itself.
# | 后 | Empress | こう, ご ; きさき | Cliff + Ground + Mouth | You walk out on a cliff, where you find in the ground a mouth poking out. It speaks: "It is me, the empress of these lands!" She was buried in the cliff down to her mouth so nobody would find her! You pull her out of the ground and soon what was just a mouth becomes a whole empress! When you finish unburying the empress, the first thing she says to you is: "Please, you must hurry and take me to Emperor こういち." It's only natural the empress would want to see her emperor. And right now, the emperor of these lands is Emperor こういち.
# | 疫 | Epidemic | えき | Sick + Weapon | Turn a sickness into a weapon and it becomes an epidemic. This sickness spreads to everyone and it's all your fault because you put it in the water supply. Imagine if countries decided to make sick weapons that would spread epidemics like this all over part of the world. Let's hope they don't... These epidemics spread by 駅 (えき). Each train takes the sickness and shoots off in a different direction, spreading it further. Picture a single 駅 on a map, bright red. Now watch the red spread to all of the other 駅 on the map, dyeing them red and spreading the epidemic all over your country.
# | 翻 | Flip | ほん ; ひるがえ | Number + Feathers | You have a numbered feather. Pick your favorite number and put it on the feather. Then, put the numbered feather on your head. When you put it on, you're able to flip and flip over and over. Imagine yourself doing flips with this feather on your head. Flip flip flip. You're pretty good at your flip technique, but you're not that good. You really need to practice and hone (ほん) your skills and get better. Or, maybe you get so good that you write a 本 (ほん) about doing a flip. Wow, you're good!
# | 鬱 | Gloom | うつ | Tree + Can + Psychopath | A tree can be a tree, but it can also be a psychopath. The tree goes from being a regular tree to being a psychopath. Such mood swings are so rough. Especially when the tree slips to gloom. Imagine all the mood swings of this tree. Psychopath tree! Also very gloomy sometimes. Then the tree switches from gloom to being super excited (these moodswings!). The super excited tree starts doing dubstep. Uts (うつ) uts uts uts uts ♬. Sing along with the moody tree. Gloom to dubstep. Such a big change.
# | 涯 | Horizon | がい ; はて | Tsunami + Cliff + Dirt | There is a tsunami coming up over a cliff made of dirt. You can see this happening very far away because it's right on the horizon. Picture the tsunami breaking over the cliff on the horizon. It would be beautiful if it wasn't so frightening. You squint into the horizon and see something else. There's some guy (がい) up there. And he's... he's being swept away by the tsunami. The guy disappears into the horizon. The guy is gone. You wonder who that guy was. You wonder why he was there. You wonder if he's still alive out there, past the horizon.
# | 銘 | Inscription | めい | Gold + Name | A gold name on this piece of wood is the inscription that shows the artist's signature. This inscription refers to a signature or something similar. This is an artisan's signature in the form of an inscription. The inscription is a name written on something, right? Remember the kanji for "name"? It is 名, and it shares the reading with this kanji as well, making both names めい. If you need to review 名 go ahead and do that. It will help you to remember this kanji.
# | 仰 | Look Up To | ぎょう, こう ; あお | Leader + Cat Pirate | The leader cat pirate is the greatest cat pirate of them all. It leads all the cat pirate leaders, even! This is truly a cat pirate to look up to. Imagine this majestic cat pirate leader of leaders. Feel in your heart that you look up to this cat pirate, truly. Your job is to bring this leader of cat pirates (whom you look up to) its favorite food: gyoza (ぎょう). Of course, the gyoza is filled with fish, because we're talking about cat pirates, here.
# | 簿 | Record Book | ぼ | Bamboo + Tsunami + Drop + Specialty | A bamboo tsunami uses its drops to carry out its specialty, which is turning itself into record books. The bamboo tsunami hits the ground and drops of bamboo turn into sheets of paper. The sheets of paper combine to become record books that record what happened here, on this day. A record book is a book (ぼ), when it comes down to it. Bamboo can also become bo staffs too, if they don't turn into record books.
# | 亭 | Restaurant, Inn, Pavilion | てい | Restaurant | The restaurant radical and the restaurant kanji are the same! The meaning of this kanji also extends other resting places, like an inn or a pavilion. Know your radicals, yo! This restaurant only serves tater (てい) tots. Really, would you ever want to go to a restaurant that didn't have tater tots? No. Imagine going to a restaurant and seeing a menu of all different types and styles of tater tots and nothing else. Even the drinks are tater tot based. Mmm mm.
# | 訂 | Revise | てい | Say + Street | What you say on the street needs to be revised. Your words need to be polished, you can't publish improv. Revise your street word inspiration before you share it again. Think about all the stupid things you said on the streets today. Do you want those exact phrases, mistakes, and mouth sounds following you around forever? Revise it before you write it down! You want to revise the song you wrote about tater (てい) tots at lunch today. But it needs a lot of revising. "Tater tots, tater tots, tater tots, man. Bake me a tater tot as fast as you banana." Well that's bad. Better revise this so it rhymes. "Tater tots, tater tots, tater tots, man. Bake me a tater tot as fast as you want." Nope, still bad. Revise! "Tater tots, tater tots, tater tots, man. Bake me a tater tot as fast as you clam." Yes. It's gold.
# | 壮 | Robust | そう | Icicle + Samurai | A samurai who can fight with icicles on him is more robust than regular samurai. Can you imagine how robust you'd have to be to fight in weather cold enough to form icicles on your body? Picture samurai standing in a line. One, two, three... woah. You look up. This guy has icicles growing off him and he's the size of a bus. Now that's a robust samurai. You may think it's just his robust body, but it's actually the samurai's robust soul (そう) that keeps him fighting through the cold and the icicles. Physical robustness is just a reflection of the strength of your soul!
# | 軌 | Rut | き | Car + Nine | There are nine cars all driving in the same place. With so many cars driving in the same place, they create a rut. Imagine the cars spinning out in the rut. Spin spin spin. The rut gets bigger. Nine is too many cars. To get out of the rut you have to put in a second key (き) that turns on the thrusters. You put in the key and press the "take off" button. Imagine turning the thrusters key, then feeling the car lift off the ground. You'll finally get out of this rut!
# | 奮 | Stirred Up | ふん ; ふる | Big + Turkey + Rice Paddy | A big turkey in the rice paddy is getting all stirred up. He's kicking up all the rice. Who stirred him up? He is a really big turkey too. Like, 12 feet tall, or something. Don't want to stir up a turkey that's that big. While the turkey is stirred up, it also looks like it's having a lot of fun (ふん). Is it laughing? Oh no, this is bad, it's enjoying being stirred up, now we'll never stop it.
# | 峰 | Summit | ほう ; みね | Mountain + Signpost | At the top of the mountain is a signpost to tell you you've reached the summit. Literally every mountain that humans have reached the top of has one of these summit signs. If that signpost wasn't there how would you know you reached the summit? Like, if you were on top of Everest and there was a bad storm... you'd just topple off the other side. Those summit signposts are important! At the summit, you decide to build your new home (ほう). It's been destroyed so many times, and you're sick of it. Maybe if you build you home at the summit of this mountain it will be safer. Picture your beautiful summit home. You know, George Washington had one of these too. So. That's cool, I guess.
# | 墳 | Tomb | ふん | Dirt + Cross + Flowers + Shellfish | Sticking out of the dirt, there's a cross adorned with flowers and shellfish shells. This is a tomb. The flowers and shellfish were put here as decorations and to honor the dead that currently lie under the dirt. And the cross marks the tomb, obviously. Can you picture this big dirt tomb, with flowers and shellfish decorating it and a cross right on top? This is a tomb, but it feels really fun (ふん). Decorated with flowers and shellfish shells, it’s not a sad place at all. It's a fun place to remember all the fun times with people you loved. See this tomb, and you'll remember all the fun you had. It's decorated to make sure you feel that fun. Fun fact: when you see 賁 in a kanji, the reading is probably going to be ふん.
# | 搬 | Transport | はん | Fingers + Boat + Weapon | With your fingers you put some weapons in a boat for transport. This is a transport boat and its your job to get these weapons from one place to another. Imagine loading a bunch of weapons into a boat and sailing off to transport them somewhere else. Hey! You're transporting weapons just like Han (はん) Solo! I mean, it was a spaceship, not technically a boat, but he definitely used the Millennium Falcon as a transport. Picture yourself as a cool smuggler, transporting stolen... I mean... totally legitimate weapons from one place to another. Just like Han Solo!
# | 邪 | Wicked | じゃ ; よこしま | Fang + Building | A fang on a building shows that it's wicked. Something wicked probably lives in the building too. Not like, wicked cool, but like wicked evil. I see you, New Englanders. You peek inside the wicked building and a wicked jaguar (じゃ) suddenly pounces at you! You let out a sigh of relief when it's stopped by the window, but then... the window opens?! What a wicked building! It's letting the jaguar get you! Imagine being chased around the outside of this wicked fanged building as the wicked fanged jaguar tries to eat you. Ahhh!
# | 又 | Again | また | Stool | You're sitting on your stool again!!? Imagine your super comfy, state-of-the-art stool. You take it everywhere with you, and you're always sitting on it. Again, and again, and again. You love that stool. Your friends are starting to worry about you, because you're always sitting on that stool. "What is the matter (また) with you?" they scream! You might want to imagine that all your friends have Jamaican or British accents to make this one fit a bit better! Imagine your friends getting more and more annoyed with your constant stool-sitting habits! They really don't get it. What is the matter with you?! Why can't you just stand like everyone else? Don't you know sitting is the "new smoking"!?
# | 肯 | Agreement, Consent | こう ; がえんじ | Stop + Moon | We must stop the moon. That, at least, we can come to an agreement on. There are a group of people pointing at pictures of the moon coming closer to earth. They are the world's leaders, and although they don't get along normally, this new attack from the moon has united them in agreement: we must stop the moon. "We have agreement," the world's leaders all say. "We will work together to stop the moon, and we have agreement on who we will follow, Emperor こういち. The world has united against the moon, and they have made Emperor こういち their temporary leader.
# | 浦 | Bay | うら ; ほ | Tsunami + Wedding | If you want to have a tsunami at your wedding, you need to make sure you have it at the bay. Anywhere more inland, and the tsunami won't reach it in time. Picture the tsunami coming towards your beautiful wedding as you stand by the bay. It's not safe, but it's memorable! How did you get a tsunami to show up in the bay in the first place? By throwing a bunch of uranium (うら) in there, of course! Its highly unstable nature can make any body of water, especially a calm bay, turn violent. Imagine throwing buckets of uranium into the bay. It only burns your hands a little. And now they glow green, just like the bay does!
# | 挟 | Between | はさ ; きょう, しょう | Fingers + Husband + Horns | Your fingers have husband horns. They are there right between each of your fingers. Imagine little husband horns (the horns your husband has) between all your fingers. Emphasis on between. What is between your fingers? Your husband (はさ) horns. Husband, between. Between, husband.
# | 沸 | Boil | ふつ ; わ | Tsunami + Dollar | If a tsunami hits a dollar the water will instantly start to boil! Imagine standing in front of an incoming tsunami. Suddenly in the distance you see someone throwing dollar bills into it and it starts to boil. Ahh! The boiling water crashes onto the land and you realize your foot is in it! No, not one foot, both your foots (ふつ)! It hurts so much that you can't even remember the word for two foots. Feel your poor little foots burn in the boiling water. You really want to know who that jerk was that threw dollars into the tsunami to make it boil!
# | 瓶 | Bottle, Jar | びん ; かめ | Horns + Lantern + Ten Thousand + Drop + Ground | A lantern with horns that can hold ten thousand drops of water is sitting on the ground. You get closer and realize it's not a lantern, it's a bottle. It's got horns, and a weird handle, but it's definitely a bottle with water inside of it. Picture this horned bottle sitting on the ground. You don't know who left it here or why, but it's here and the weirdest looking bottle you've ever seen. Even though you're not the one who left this bottle here, you decide to do the right thing and throw it in the trash bin (びん). It's not right to leave a bottle just sitting on the ground, you know. Imagine picking up this weird bottle with your bare hands and putting it in a trash bin. You did your good deed for today! Yay!
# | 召 | Call, Eat | しょう ; め | Call | The call radical and the call kanji are the same. This kanji can also mean eat, because why would you call someone if not to ask them to eat with you?! Call your mom or dad and ask them to go out to eat with you right now. You are called to come eat by the Shougun (しょう). He's been really impressed with you lately and he wants to chat over drinks, he says on the phone. Imagine getting a call from the Shougun himself. He's come to your house before, but he's never asked you to eat with him. This is huge!
# | 貞 | Chastity | てい ; さだ | Toe + Shellfish | You try to put your toe inside a shellfish, but it just won't open. That's because this shellfish has sworn an oath of chastity. "No, I won't open up until I meet the toe I will marry," it says to you. "Chastity is really important to me," the shellfish says. "But, maybe if you give me a tater (てい) tot, I'll change my mind." You give the shellfish a tater tot, and it breaks its vow of chastity, opening up for your toe. You look the other way, but you can hear the sounds of passion below.
# | 亮 | Clear | りょう ; あきらか | Lid + Mouth + Forehead + Legs | There is a special type of meditation where you put a lid on your mouth and touch your forehead down to your legs. If you can do this pose, everything in life will become completely clear. Everything will clear out of your head too. You should try it. Imagine this pose, imagine everything becoming clear. Clear your mind. Clear your head. Your mind is as clear as a sparkling clear pond. On this pond you see yourself in a row (りょう) boat. A single row boat on the clear pond that is now your mind. Picture the row boat on the clear pond in your mind. Watch the clear water flow over the row boat's oars.
# | 襟 | Collar | えり ; きん | Spirit + Tree + Jackhammer | The spirits of the two trees you destroyed with your jackhammer live on in the collar you made out of them. You took the shredding tree bits and carefully molded them into a nice collar to go with all of your shirts. But now it's haunted. The collar keeps whispering, "Eric (えり)!" into your ear. Your name isn't Eric (I mean it could be, in that case wow, weird, right?), so you assume one of the trees you killed was named Eric. But that's the only name you hear, so maybe they were both named Eric? It's weird. Whenever you put on your collar you hear a constant stream of, "Eric, pssst, hey Eric, hey!" and you just have to pretend it isn't happening.
# | 隅 | Corner | すみ ; ぐう | Building + Splinter | So my building has a big splinter, right in the corner. So what? Imagine a huge splinter coming out of the corner of the building. It's in a really dangerous spot, but the owner doesn't seem so worried about it. That corner is dangerous, but what are you going to do, sue me (すみ)? Actually, please don't sue me. I'll fix the splinter coming out of the corner of my building.
# | 郡 | County, District | ぐん ; こおり | Buddy + Building | The buddy building is in the next county. If it was in your county then it wouldn't be a buddy, it would be a neighbor. You're aware of this building, but they aren't that close, so they're just a buddy. Imagine looking at a map of your county and the surrounding ones. All of the buildings in the counties next to yours are buddy buildings! Your county is everything you can reach when shooting a gun (ぐん). If the bullet can't reach a building you know, it's a buddy building in another county. Imagine taking out a gun and shooting in a random direction. When you find where the bullet landed, you know that's the county line. Though if it gets stuck in a building or a person it doesn't count. You'll have to try again.
# | 燥 | Dry Up | そう ; はしゃ | Fire + Syrup | Put syrup too close to fire and it will dry up. Put any liquid substance near fire and it will dry up actually, but syrup especially. It goes from being sticky and gooey and yummy to a pile of hard, dry sugar. Not so yummy. Imagine putting some syrup over a fire and watching it dry up. Watch as the sides slowly bubble and harden and lose what makes syrup so good in the first place. If you dry up syrup like this, you're removing its soul (そう). Have you ever seen dry syrup before? No soul in that. In fact, you probably have no soul if you can dry out syrup like this without feeling bad about it. Go back to imagining a fire drying up some syrup and watch as a tiny little syrup soul cries and is released into the air. Oh no!
# | 釈 | Explanation | しゃく, せき ; す, とく, ゆる | Sickle + Shrimp | Kill a shrimp with a sickle and you'll need a really good explanation for yourself. What did that shrimp do to you? Why use a sickle? Well? What's your explanation? Try to come with an explanation for picking up a sickle and cutting the head off a shrimp with it. In your explanation you blame everything on Shaq (しゃく). He told you to do it! It's all Shaq's fault, you explain. Picture Shaq popping into your head as you struggle to come up with an explanation for me. Picture Shaq's face. This is payback for Shaq Fu, you think, as you finalize the rest of the explanation in your mind.
# | 脂 | Fat | し ; あぶら | Moon + Spoon + Sun | If you eat both the moon and the sun with a spoon you'll get fat. Maybe if you only ate one you could get away with it, but you wanted both and now you're pretty fat. Picture yourself digging your spoon into the moon, then into the sun, and gulping them both down. Watch your stomach swell with the sun and moon fats. No going back now, gotta finish. Once you're nice and fat, you look in the mirror to admire your new girth. But that's not you... it's a sheep (し)! Oh nooo you've turned into a fat sheep! You're actually pretty adorable and round and fluffy, but you liked being a human!
# | 偉 | Greatness | い ; えら | Leader + Korea | The leader of Korea is destined for greatness. I mean, they're the leader of Korea already, right? So they have to have a decent chunk of greatness in them already to get that far. The greatness radiates off of the leader of Korea, so much so that you can hardly look. Just when you're about to close your eyes to shield them from the greatness, a great eagle (い) soars over them, letting out a cry. Picture the greatness of the scene before you: the leader of Korea, a great eagle overhead, it's so great!!
# | 蓮 | Lotus | れん ; はす, はちす | Flowers + Car + Scooter | You put flowers on your scooter and your car. The flowers you put on them are lotus flowers. Imagine placing lotuses on top of your scooter and car. They are the right kind of flowers for these vehicles. You're putting a lotus on both your scooter and car because they are rentals (れん). You always put a lotus on top of your rental cars and scooters. Come up with a personal reason why you do this.
# | 慈 | Mercy | じ ; いつく | Horns + Ground + Poop + Heart | A person with horns has you on the ground and lets loose two poops over your heart. "Mercy! Mercy!" You cry, but the horned dude doesn't stop until there are two gross poops sitting on your heart. "M-mercy..." is the only thing you can think to say. Imagine yourself saying "mercy" over an over as this horned guy has you on the ground and keeps pooping over your heart. As you shout "Mercy!" one more time, suddenly Jesus (じ) appears out of no where and punches the horned guy into the stratosphere. Jesus snaps his fingers and the poop is gone and you're off the ground. Your heart is safe. Imagine yourself saying mercy and seeing Jesus appearing just in time to save the day. The word "mercy" must be his bat signal. Jesus signal? Sure.
# | 塚 | Mound | つか ; ちょう | Dirt + Forehead + Pig | The dirt on the forehead of a pig makes a small mound. Picture it, if you will. A pig is rooting through the dirt. It lifts its head and there is a mound of dirt right on its forehead. Imagine that you're the pig. How big can you make your forehead dirt mound? The pig's forehead dirt mound keeps getting bigger until it's the size of two cars (つか)! Pigs are big, but you didn't think one could balance a mound the size of two cars on its forehead and not fall over. Picture a pig with a mound of dirt the size of two cars leisurely stomping around on a farm.
# | 肪 | Obese, Fat | ぼう | Moon + Direction | When the moon faces the right direction, everyone on earth becomes obese. The pull of the moon moves all the water on earth as well as inside us, so when it faces the right way, we all get super fat. Picture the moon turning to face a different direction. Feel your body start to become really obese. You get huge and round just like the moon. You look around and everyone is obese like you. You try to reach out to them, but you roll over like a big bowling (ぼう) ball. The person next to you does too. Soon you're all rolling around like helpless, obese bowling balls. Picture yourself, as obese and round as a bowling ball, rolling faster and faster down hills. Other people are rolling around you too. You're all screaming. You want the moon to face the other direction so it will stop. You don't like being a human bowling ball!
# | 耕 | Plow | こう ; たがや | Plow + Well | You have a plow and a (water) well. These are the two things you need in order to plow. You'd think you'd only need a plow, but you also need water if you're going to plow a field, otherwise what's the point? plowing all the fields are こういちs. Not Emperor こういち. These are the こういち clones the government made, and now they're being put to use. Thousands and thousands of こういちs, set free unto the world to do all our plowing work.
# | 媛 | Princess, Beautiful Woman | ひめ ; えん | Woman + Football | Everyone knows that when a woman plays football she becomes a princess. Thats how princesses are made. Picture the awesome princess, kicking butt and taking names, out on the football field. Remember the word 姫? It means princess too. If you remember the ひめ from 姫, you'll be able to remember this one too. Make sure you know both princess words and you'll know their readings too.
# | 邸 | Residence | てい ; やしき | Clan + Ground + Building | Your clan is breaking ground and building your new residence. You're all working together to make you a new home! Picture your clan, working together, to build a new residence for you on their land. Your new residence is complete! You step closer and the smell of tater (てい) tots hits your nose. Someone is making you tater tots in your new residence. Wait, no they aren't. Your residence is MADE of tater tots! Thank you, clan! Imagine living in a tater tot residence. Whenever you're hungry, you just lean over to the wall and munch.
# | 喚 | Scream, Yell | かん ; わめ | Mouth + Prison + Legs + Big | You wake up in prison and there is a big mouth full of legs coming really, really close to your own mouth so you scream! Scream because this is terrifying. Scream because it's all you can think to do. Imagine a prison where horrible mouth leg creatures are trying to get in your mouth. You don't want to scream because they might get in there, but you can't help it. You scream and scream and scream until a door bursts open. It's Genghis Khan (かん) and he looks mad. Apparently your screaming is bothering him and now he's gonna give you a real reason to scream. Imagine Genghis Khan doing something to make you scream. What is it? What could Genghis Khan do that's worse than what's already happening to you?
# | 苗 | Seedling, Sapling | みょう, びょう ; なえ, なわ | Flowers + Rice Paddy | Flowers that grow in a rice paddy only live to be seedlings. Once they sprout, they're plucked away to make room for more rice. Poor little seedlings. Picture the seedlings growing among the rice plants. Once they bloom they'll be picked, so let's hope they stay small as long as they can. The seedlings try their best to blend in by referring to themselves as myou (みょう), you know, me and you combined. That's myou. Listen to the little seedlings say myou over and over. Too bad the farmers can tell they aren't rice plants.
# | 隻 | Ship Counter | せき | Turkey + Stool | A turkey sitting on a stool is something every ship has in its crow's nest. That's why the universal ship counter is a turkey on a stool. Not a crow. Picture yourself counting ships by pointing your finger from one turkey propped up on a stool to the next. You'll be the best ship counter in the world at this rate! Once you become the best ship counter in the world everyone will think you are super sexy (せき)! Nothing is sexier than being able to count, and counting ships is the sexiest thing you can count. Imagine yourself, a sexy ship counter. Sexily counting ships. You go guy/girl/non binary person! So sexy!
# | 膚 | Skin | ふ ; はだ | Tiger + Stomach | If you look in a tiger's stomach you'll find a bunch of skin. It's really gross but what else did you think you'd find? Everyone knows tigers can't digest the skin of the things it eats. Imagine yourself opening a tigers mouth and looking all the way down into its stomach and seeing a bunch of skin. Why would you imagine that? Eww. The only person who would try to take skin from a tiger's stomach is a fool (ふ). You'll probably get your head bitten off looking for skin that way. Imagine a fool trying to pull skin out of a tiger's stomach. You can imagine them getting their skin added to the pile too if you want.
# | 軟 | Soft | なん ; やわ | Car + Lack | A car that's lacking is really soft. Cars need to be hard so that things like bugs and other cars wont hurt the people inside when you hit them. But if your car is lacking the hardness it needs, you'll have a really soft, useless car. Picture a soft car lacking what it needs to drive down the road. It's so soft it just flops down and won't move. This car is probably so soft because it's made entirely of naan (なん). Naan may be delicious, but it makes a really crappy car. No wonder it was so soft (and yummy). Picture trying to drive this soft naan car. It probably just sinks into the ground and then gets eaten by wild animals (and me).
# | 郊 | Suburbs | こう | Mix + Building | If you mix a bunch of buildings together, you have yourself a suburb. Isn't that all a suburb is? Just a mix of a variety of buildings in one area? "Suburbs are what we need!" says Emperor こういち. "That suburb life will encourage more people to study kanji," Emperor こういち continues.
# | 頂 | Summit, Humbly | ちょう ; いただき, いただ | Street + Geoduck | Take the street all the way to that geoduck, way up there. When you reach it, you will have made it to the summit. You humbly present the road to the geoduck and bow before it. There is a giant geoduck at the summit of the mountain, and the street will lead you right there. Imagine the grueling climb up the mountain to the summit. Feel it in your legs, and keep looking at that tall, tall geoduck. Now imagine kneeling those same aching legs humbly to the street below the geoduck. You are at the top, the summit of everything! You humbly survey your surroundings from the top of the geoduck, only to see someone on the street, running toward you. It is Mrs. Chou (ちょう), and she looks angry. Anytime you use the street, you're in Mrs. Chou's territory. After detecting you were using her street to reach the geoduck, she started coming after you. Remember, wherever there's a street (radical), Mrs. Chou is not far behind.
# | 濯 | Wash | たく ; すす, ゆす, そそぐ | Tsunami + Wolverine + Turkey | You need to throw your two wolverines and your turkey into the oncoming tsunami if you want to wash them at the same time. It's the only way you can get them clean at once without the wolverines fighting over the turkey and somebody getting hurt. The tsunami is big enough to wash them all before anything bad happens. Imagine the tsunami coming toward you. Two wolverines in one hand and a turkey in the other. You're gonna wash them so good they'll never get dirty again. Once they're nice and washed you need to subdue them by poking each of them with a tack (たく). The tack has special sleeping medicine on it, so once they're nice and clean you can put them back in their cages without them trying to eat each other. If you want to wash your animals make sure to have your special tack ready. The tsunami will recede pretty fast so get it out!
# | 渦 | Whirlpool | か ; うず | Tsunami + Mustache | If you put two mustaches on either side of a tsunami it won't know which way to go and spin back and forth until it becomes a whirlpool. Mustaches are pretty gross, so I don't blame the tsunami for avoiding them. Picture the tsunami spinning in a circle, trying not to hit the mustaches until it spins itself into a giant whirlpool. The whirlpool is huge, and it starts pulling things into itself. Oh no, is that my car (か)? Hey, wait! Whirlpool give my car back! Picture my car getting sucked into the whirlpool. Picture me crying as my car disappears into it forever.
# | 聡 | Wise | そう ; さと, みみざと | Ear + Public + Heart | If you have an ear for the public's heart, you must be very wise. You can understand everything the people want, and you know how to give it to them because you listen to their hearts so well. Close your eyes and open your ears. Feel all of the wise things fill you. All of these wise things are stored in your soul (そう), not your brain. That's where all of these kinds of intuitive feelings live. Picture your wise soul, living inside your body. Somehow it just seems to know what the public really wants. It's like your soul is connected to their souls, granting you this wisdom.
# | 枯 | Wither | こ ; か | Tree + Old | When a tree grows old, it will wither. Old trees' roots and leaves grow inefficient, and they can't get enough nutrients. It's only natural for them to wither up a little bit. This withered tree's best friend is a human 子 (こ). Imagine the child hugging the tree. It gave the 子 its shade, its sap, and eventually its body to build a house. What an awful child, and what a generic giving tree.
# | 祥 | Auspicious | しょう ; きざ, さいわ, つまび, よ | Spirit + Sheep | When a spirit lives in a sheep it becomes the most auspicious creature on the planet. Lights shine out of it and the whole world weeps at its beauty. Look at the sheep's fluffy glowing head. Nothing could be more auspicious and glorious than this. Picture this auspicious spirit sheep. Blessing the children with its fluffy hooves. The spirit sheep is so auspicious that the Shougun (しょう) declares this day to be the most auspicious of all days. The day when the spirit sheep appeared. Picture the Shougun telling the world that they must fly spirit sheep flags on this day forever, because of how auspicious it is.
# | 呂 | Bath | ろ, りょ ; せぼね | Bathtub | I hope all you're doing in the bathtub is taking a bath. I mean, you can do other things if you want I guess. But bathtubs were made just for baths! Picture yourself taking a bath in your bathtub. Relaxing! When do you miss taking a bath the most? When you're on the road (ろ). Traveling is fun and all, but when you're stuck in a car, traveling down a dirt road for days, all you want to do is take a nice long bath. Imagine being stuck on the road all day for a week. Imagine how good a bath will feel when you finally get home. Nice and hot and relaxing. Mmmm...
# | 偏 | Biased | へん ; かたよ | Leader + Library | The leader of the library thinks that all the books in their library are better than everyone else's books. He's a very biased person. If he wasn't the leader of that specific library he'd probably feel differently. Imagine showing the leader your favorite book. "That's not a book in MY library," he says, and throws it in the trash. That's so biased! He didn't even give it a shot! You decide to give in to his biased recommendations and look at what he has in his library. It doesn't take long until you realize that these books are all about hens (へん) and hen care. This guy is so biased about his favorite books that he only filled his library with what HE wants to read. And apparently that thing is taking care of hens... weird. "This is such biased crap," you say, as you finish reading the title of a book called "Hens are better than all other birds." Screw this leader guy and his books.
# | 茨 | Briar, Thorn | いばら ; し, じ | Flowers + Next | If you look at flowers the first thing you notice are the leaves and petals themselves, then the next thing you notice are the briars. You never see thorns first, only after you've looked at the flowers. Imagine what you see next after looking at the pretty flowers. The briars are what you see next. Spiky and sharp. It would have been nice if you had seen them first. When you see the briars you can't help but yell, Eee! Ba riars! (いばら)! You pause funny because you prick your finger on one while you're yelling. Ouch! Imagine seeing the briars and yelling out "Ba RI ars!" as you prick your finger on one.
# | 陥 | Cave In | かん ; おちい, おとしい | Building + Prison + Former | This building was a former prison until the cave in. You see, prisons aren't built very carefully, they just try to get them done fast enough to stuff people in there. So while you can tell this was once a building, it definitely isn't a prison anymore, since the whole thing caved in. Picture the cave in in your mind. Can you see all the little prisoners and guards being squished as the building tumbles down around them? Oh no! You keep picturing the cave in and you see Genghis Khan (かん) climbing over the rubble. He's the one who took down this prison! And he's coming for your town next! Genghis Khan is all about being smart and using better tactics. In this case, why fight a bunch of guards and prisoners when you can just cause a cave in and win immediately? The ol' Khan cave in, a classic war maneuver.
# | 鎖 | Chain | さ ; くさり, とざ | Gold + Triceratops + Shellfish | The famous gold triceratops shellfish is good for only one thing, and that's being made into chains. They link their triceratops horns together and form an unbreakable gold chain. You can't eat them, because they're gold. So they're only really good for their chaining together ability. Picture these little gold triceratops shellfish linked together by their horns in a chain around your neck. Feel them hanging there. Sparkly and cold. However, the only way to break the chain is to saw (さ) it open. Once the triceratops shellfish start holding on, they never let go. So when you want to take the chain off you have to really hack at it with your saw. Picture the saw in your hands, sawing back and forth on the gold chain around your neck. Maybe this isn't the best fashion accessory if you have to use a saw to get it off.
# | 賠 | Compensation, Compensate | ばい | Shellfish + Clown | You give a bunch of shellfish to a clown as compensation. The clown did you some favors, and everyone knows clowns only accept shellfish as a form of currency. So your compensation is a pile of random shellfish. Picture the shellfish in your hands. Imagine handing them over to the clown as compensation for the unspeakable acts you had him do for you. Once the clown has been properly compensated, he looks you in the eyes, one hand full of shellfish, the other in the air, and waves, "Bye (ばい)" he says. "Bye, bye." All you have to do is give him the right amount of compensation and you'll hear his sweet "bye, bye." Then you never have to see him again.
# | 恒 | Constant, Always | こう ; つね, つねに | Soul + Ground + Dawn | Your soul is like the ground or the dawn. It is constant, never changing. Think of some other things your soul is like, but always make sure you come back to one word: constant. Also constant is the Emperor こういち, who will surely rule for a thousand more years! A constant rule from Emperor こういち means constant kanji learning and constant WaniKani reviews. They will always be constant!
# | 綾 | Design | あや ; りん | Thread + Frostbite | You're sewing something with thread but you and your creation get frostbite while you're still working. Luckily the snowflakes freeze themselves into the cloth and turn into a pretty design. They swirl around and press a unique snowy design into the fabric. This is nice for you because you can't sew anymore with your frostbitten hands. Imagine holding your creation in your frostbitten hands as the snowflake design starts to appear. The design gets more and more complicated the longer you watch, twisting this way and that, like it's dancing in front of your eyes. As you watch the snowflake design form you see letters appearing in the corner! They form the name Aya (あや), our artist here at WaniKani. Somehow she's magically putting together this beautiful pattern! If you know someone else called Aya, go ahead and use them in this mnemonic! Whoever it is, imagine an Aya watching from afar holding a magic wand, creating this beautiful frosty pattern!
# | 没 | Die | ぼつ, もつ ; おぼ, しず, ない | Tsunami + Weapon | If you figure out how to use a tsunami as a weapon, everyone is going to die. You can't control a tsunami, you fool. Now you've doomed us all. Picture everyone in the world being swept away in a tsunami to die. This is what happens when you try to use nature as a weapon. The only way to maybe not die is to find boats (ぼつ). As long as the boats don't get smashed by the tsunami, you might be able to cheat death by holding onto the boats and not drowning. You don't want to die, do you? Get to the boats!
# | 擁 | Embrace | よう | Fingers + Lid + Poop + Turkey | Your fingers grasp this lid and when you raise it you see a poop turkey (a turkey covered in poop). You can't help yourself, you embrace the turkey. Someone was obviously going to cook this poop turkey in a pot, and if you hadn't looked under this lid it surely would have died. Now as you embrace it you can hear the turkey weeping softly. As you embrace the sad turkey it makes a funny sound and suddenly starts pooping yogurt (よう) all over you. But you don't want to stop embracing it! It's probably just scared still. But the more you squeeze, the faster the yogurt comes out of it! Imagine embracing the turkey as it covers you in yogurt poo. You hope it's yogurt at least. You aren't gonna taste it to find out. Maybe. Okay you might taste it a little.
# | 遭 | Encounter, Meet | そう ; あ | Scooter + Ground + Music + Sun | When you ride your scooter on the ground listening to music under the sun, you're bound to encounter a bunch of new people! They hear your music playing as you scoot by and they come out to meet you. Picture all of the people you encounter as you ride your scooter, spreading your music around town. Everyone you encounter wants to bare their soul (そう) to you, literally. They're all coming out to meet you, pulling back their skin and showing you the soul ghosts inside of them. "We love your music, look at our souls!" Uh oh, this is turning into some kind of horror movie. You better scoot a bit faster or you might meet an unfortunate fate.
# | 噴 | Erupt | ふん ; ふ | Mouth + Cross + Flowers + Shellfish | From your mouth comes a cross, some flowers, and shellfish. It all erupts from your mouth! Imagine these three things coming out of your mouth not one at a time, but all together like an eruption. Perhaps you're laying on your back, and they burst out of your mouth. When do inanimate objects erupt from your mouth? Mostly when you're having fun (ふん). It's really inconvenient that things erupt from your mouth whenever you're having fun. Makes it hard to have fun. Fun fact: when you see 賁 in a kanji, the reading is probably going to be ふん.
# | 殊 | Especially | しゅ ; こと | Yakuza + Slide + Jet | If the yakuza slide you into a jet, things are especially bad for you. Not just normal bad, like, especially bad. First of all, the yakuza have you, that's bad already. But they're sliding you into their jet? That means you aren't upright, you might even be knocked out or dead. That's especially worrying, don't you think? You're especially worried now, because they're putting you in some kind of chute (しゅ). You already took a slide in here, and now you're teetering over the edge of a dark, steep chute into who knows where! As you slide down the chute, it's especially dark. And especially scary. And especially bad! How did this happen to you?!
# | 倫 | Ethics | りん | Leader + Hat + Ground + Bookshelf | A leader puts their hat on the ground next to a bookshelf. This is a test in ethics. People hang around the bookshelf, and the leader wants to see if anyone will steal the hat or not. That's why its a test of ethics. To test your ethics even more, the leader puts down a ring (りん) as well. Now we'll really see how everyone's ethics are. Will they turn in the ring to the lost and found? Will they ignore it? Will they steal it?
# | 陳 | Exhibit | ちん ; ひ | Building + East | The building to the east is an exhibit. It's a pretty large building and you can see inside to all of the different exhibits within the main exhibit. Right now the exhibit has a bunch of chins (ちん) on display. Animal chins, human chins, every chin you can think of is in the exhibit. Go up to the first exhibit and look very closely at some turtle chins, then some crab chins, then some alligator chins. This is weirdly familiar.
# | 隼 | Falcon | はやぶさ ; しゅん, じゅん | Turkey + Cross | If you tie a cross to a turkey you can trick everyone into thinking it's a falcon. The cross will stretch its wings out just enough for it to stop looking so fat and turkey like, into a super cool bird of prey. Imagine tying a cross to this turkey and see it transform into an elegant falcon. Majestic. You decide to name this new falcon after your favorite falcon-like ninja. Ryu Hayabusa (はやぶさ) from Ninja Gaiden! Picture your fat turkey falcon and Ryu Hayabusa teaming up Banjo and Kazooey style. Yeah, that's the dream right there. Picture your falcon Hayabusa and the real... ok fake.. Hayabusa running around together and kicking butt.
# | 乃 | From | の, なんじ, すなわ ; ない | Stairs | What do stairs do? They take you from where you were, to somewhere else. They're a way to get from place to place. Picture yourself climbing stairs, picture going from room to room. From place to place. From wherever you were to wherever you want to be. If you're going from place to place, make sure you have some nori (の) seaweed on you, in case you get hungry. Nori is a great source of energy. Imagine yourself going from one place to another with your pockets stuffed full of nori. The smell is starting to get overwhelming. It's making you really hungry (or nauseous, depending on how you feel about nori!).
# | 輔 | Help | すけ ; ふ, ほ; たす | Car + Wedding | If you want to have your wedding in a car you're going to need a lot of help. Cars are pretty small compared to weddings, so if you don't get help from everyone you know you won't be able to pull it off. Picture all of your close friends coming to help you squeeze everything for the wedding into your car. You can't just ask for help on the day of the wedding, either. You have to schedule (すけ) getting your friends' help ahead of time. They might have pretty tight schedules too, so make sure you plan early! Imagine calling all your friends and scheduling when you will get their help. Make sure you have your day planner ready!
# | 猟 | Hunting | りょう ; かり, か | Animal + Grass + Task | There is an animal in the grass and your horrible task is to go hunting for it. Picture the shape of the animal in the grass, off in the distance. You can't see what kind of animal it is yet, but you know you're hunting it. You're currently hunting in a row (りょう) boat and you have to row as quietly and carefully as you can or the animal will run away. You wouldn't be able to go hunting in any other kind of boat—the motor would be too loud. Picture yourself in a row boat with all of your hunting gear. You need to be extra careful not to make any loud splashing sounds with the oars!
# | 唆 | Instigate | さ ; そそのか, そそ | Mouth + Spider | If you have spiders in your mouth, then you're going to instigate fights between people. Mostly because the spider in your mouth makes you grumpy, but also because the spider keeps telling you to be an instigator with its little mouth inside your own mouth. Imagine having a spider in your mouth. Imagine being angry about it and instigating fights between people because of it. The spider in your mouth tells you to instigate a fight by sawing (さ) the other person's leg off. It even whispers where you can find a nice big saw. Picture the fight you and the spider instigated. The guy pointing at the saw, then pointing at his sawed off leg. Listen as the spider tells you to shake your head.
# | 惰 | Lazy | だ | Soul + Narwhal + Construction + Moon | In its soul, a narwhal that's supposed to do construction under the moon, will be too lazy to do it. And when your soul is lazy, there's no way you'll be able to get something done. Picture the lazy narwhal laying on a block of ice in the moonlight. There are tools and other blocks of ice around, but he just can't seem to get up and do any construction work. You can't tell the lazy narwhal he's being lazy because he's your dad (だ). If he was anyone else you'd tell him off for being lazy, but you can't tell off your dad. That's just not right. Picture your lazy dad. Your big, lazy narwhal dad.
# | 怠 | Lazy, Neglect | たい ; おこた, なま | Machine + Heart | If you give a machine a heart it will get lazy. Hearts give us emotions and with emotions we become weak. Why would a machine with a heart want to work anymore? Nah. It's lazy time now. Picture a machine with a heart, lying on the couch, eating oil snacks, and snoozing. What a lazy machine! The machine is so lazy it won't even wear its tie (たい) anymore. That was the only official thing left about it, but now it's as lazy as a human. Would a lazy human put on a tie? I don't think so. Picture the lazy machine sitting on the couch again. There are untied ties all over the floor.
# | 覇 | Leadership | は, はく ; はたがしら | Helicopter + Leather + Moon | Take a leather helicopter to the moon to prove your excellent leadership. Some people called you crazy, but you'll show them, as you lead an entire crew of leather helicopter pilots on their first mission to space! Not many people have the leadership it takes to lead such a mission. Imagine what it takes to do it! Under your superior leadership you and your leather helicopter crew are able to make it to the moon. The moon! Your crew is so impressed by your leadership, and their lack of being very dead, and they all start laughing, "Ha (は) ha ha ha!" They thought they were going to die but you lead them to the moon safely! Imagine laughing along with the crew, in awe at your own leadership skills. Ha ha ha! We didn't die!
# | 須 | Necessary | す, しゅ ; すべから, すべし, ひげ, まつ, もち, もと | Hair + Geoduck | Shaving the hair off a geoduck before you try to eat it is absolutely necessary. If you don't, the hair will get caught in your throat and you'll choke. It is necessary that you remove the hair. Picture the page in your cookbook where it says "Shaving the hair off your geoduck = Necessary!!" It's absolutely necessary that you follow that instruction! It is also necessary that you wear a suit (す) when eating shaved geoduck. It's a super fancy meal so a suit is necessary for you to enjoy it correctly. What's necessary? To shave the hair off your geoduck and to wear a suit. That's not too hard. You should do it.
# | 牲 | Offering, Sacrifice | せい | Cow + Life | If you take a cow's life you're turning it into an offering. In the old days, cows' lives were given to the gods as offerings pretty often. Picture yourself offering the cow's life up to the god(s). It's a good thing we don't actually have to do this anymore, you think. You prepare the offering with your holy blue saber (せい). Normally this would be gruesome, but your saber glows and the cow's life shoots up into the sky without you laying a hand on it. Thanks to the mercy of your saber, the offering is quick and painless. A normal saber, however, would have cut that cow to bits. Like, really just wrecked it. Good thing we didn't make you think about that, huh?
# | 秩 | Order, Regularity | ちつ | Grain + Fault | If a grain has a fault, it needs to be put back in order. Grains must be perfectly identical at all times, otherwise they'll be thrown out. That's why special people will go out and check them to confirm their regularity. Keeping order is a tough job! Imagine being one of these people who maintain order by going out in the fields and inspecting every single grain, keeping the good ones and plucking off the ones with faults. You can always tell if a company keeps order or if it cheats (ちつ) just by looking at the grains. If there are faulty grains in there, they cheated and order was not maintained. Now you have to go through all the grains and throw out the weird ones yourself.
# | 孤 | Orphan, Alone | こ | Melon + Child | There was once a melon child, that is, a child with the body of a melon. When he was born, his parents didn't want him, so he became an orphan. The "melon boy orphan," is what they called him. Imagine a melon (your favorite kind) with a face and arms and legs sticking out. He walks up to you and says "hello kind person, could you help an orphan?" The orphan melon boy is but a 子 (こ). That's the sad thing about the melon orphan boy... he's just a child. "Hello gov, I'm just a child," he says to you.
# | 芳 | Perfume | ほう ; かんば | Flowers + Direction | If you point flowers in the same direction you'll be able to smell their wonderful perfume. The best way to get perfume out of flowers is to make them face the same way. Then the smell will go the same direction, making you smell great. Imagine aiming a bunch of flowers in the same direction towards you. The perfume coats your body. You smell great now! You decide to perfume your entire home (ほう) by planting flowers all the way around it, all facing in toward it. Now when you're in your home the overwhelming smell of perfume assaults your nostrils. It's actually... really strong. Oh... oh no it's too strong, you can't breathe. And you live alone. Help! Someone!
# | 貫 | Pierce, Sushi Counter | かん ; つらぬ, ぬき, ぬ | Window + Shellfish | Under the window, you place a shellfish, then slam the window shut to pierce its tough shell. This is the best way to pierce a member of the shellfish family, I promise. This kanji also has a second meaning. That shellfish you pierced with the window is in two halves now. You can use those halves as plates for sushi. If you count the broken shells you'll know how much sushi you have. That makes them sushi counters! Imagine the window piercing into the shellfish's shell. Then imagine lining up the pieces, putting sushi on them, and counting them all. Now that your shellfish is properly pierced and turned into sushi counters, you can serve them to Genghis Khan (かん) and his men. I really hope you counted them correctly too, because there are a lot of them. Carefully count out all the sushi on their pierced shell plates and place them in front of Genghis Khan and his army. As you reach Genghis Khan himself, you realize it's just his ghost, but he's still staring at you as you serve his troops. Ghost or not, you don't want him to pierce you if you mess up.
# | 糧 | Provisions | りょう, ろう ; かて | Rice + Dawn + Village | The rice that's prepared at dawn by the village are provisions for the army. The army is scheduled to arrive right after dawn, so all of the village's provisions for them have to be ready by then. Picture everyone in the village getting all of their rice together as provisions for the army. Even the kids and old people are helping out. Once all of the provisions are ready, the soldiers show up in their row (りょう) boats and load it all up. But they aren't done there. "Rice isn't enough, we need roe (ろう) so we will have the strength to row our row boats back." And so the village brings them all of their roe too. Picture the soldiers gobbling down their provisions of rice and roe in their row boats as they row away.
# | 颯 | Quick, Sudden | さつ, そう ; さっ, はやて | Stand + Wind | If you stand in the wind it will be really quick to knock you over. So quick that you probably won't even know the wind did it. You'll end up standing up again just to be knocked over again, just as quick. Imagine how quick the wind knocks you over when you stand up. So quick, you don't even remember being up. Try again and try to count how many seconds it takes for it to knock you down. Less than one. Now that's quick. The wind was so quick to knock you down that you sat (さつ) down instead. The wind may be quick, but it can't knock you down if you've already sat yourself. Picture how quick you sat down. Even faster than the quick wind. Nice job!
# | 蘇 | Revive | そ, す ; よみがえ | Flowers + Fish + Grain | All you need are some flowers, fish, and grain and you've got yourself a potion that can revive just about anyone or anything! Just don't forget the ingredients you'll need: flowers, fish, and grain. Imagine yourself throwing them all into a big cauldron and brewing up a potion powerful enough to revive a person! This potion able to revive any being just has one small downside: it tastes like soap (そ). As long as you can get over the awful taste of soap, this is some good, powerful stuff! And considering this'll be administered to dead things… the taste is probably not so important.
# | 慢 | Ridicule, Laziness | まん | Soul + Sun + Net + Stool | If your soul is acting like the sun trapped in a net sitting on a stool, then people will ridicule you for your laziness. You're just sitting there, trapped and not moving. Your soul just doesn't want to move or do anything though... and that may look like laziness, but you can't help it. You wish your friends and family wouldn't ridicule you. You're going through enough, internally. When people ridicule you, when you can't stop the laziness, you read manga (まん). Manga helps you feel better about the mean things people say. Manga helps you feel like you're doing something, and that you aren't just a lazy person. Picture yourself reading manga and watch as the people who ridicule you and call you lazy fade away into the background. You're going to be okay.
# | 膨 | Swell | ぼう ; ふく | Moon + Drum + Hair | Play your drum under the moon and your hair will swell! The more you play and the longer it's under the moon, the larger your hair will swell. Have you been suffering from flat, boring hair? Well do I have the swelling treatment you've been looking for! Using this method, your hair swells so much it looks like a giant bowling (ぼう) ball is sitting on top of your head. It's all round, and well... swollen is probably the only word that fits. Imagine watching your hair swell to the size of a large bowling ball. Imagine never being able to go bowling again because the comparison is too easy for people to make.
# | 遇 | Treatment | ぐう ; あ | Scooter + Splinter | Your scooter gave you a splinter, so you had to go in for treatment. Imagine how bad a scooter splinter would be! You would need special treatment for that. After you get treatment, you feel really good (ぐう). Not just "good," but "goooooood." Emphasize the long vowel for the long vowel in ぐう. You feel this way because when you went in for treatment, they gave you the good, good drugs. You know the ones.
# | 諭 | Admonish | ゆ ; さと | Say + Death Star | If you try to say something to the Death Star, it would only admonish you. It was made to destroy planets, after all, so I don't know why you'd expect it to have anything nice to say. It just admonishes you about everything you've ever done wrong until you can't stop crying. Imagine being admonished by the Death Star. It's hovering above you, giant and round, just yelling at you about everything you've ever messed up. It's really awful being yelled at. But the Death Star doing it is particularly scary and embarrassing. Right now you're being admonished about living in a yurt (ゆ). The Death Star bellows, "What, am I too big and safe for you? I'm easy to move too, you know. You're a disgrace! You should be ashamed!" Imagine sitting in your yurt, the home you love, but you can still hear the admonishments from the Death Star in your ears. You feel... bad.
# | 随 | All | ずい ; したが, まにま | Building + Have + Scooter | How many buildings have scooters? All of them! All buildings have at least one scooter. It could be out front, on the roof, in the basement. But all of them have scooters and someone who likes to ride them instead of using a car or a bike. All of these scooters have a specific sound they make as they burst out of the buildings: zuwee (ずい). Imagine the sound of the scooter's tiny engine: zuwee zuwee zu zu zuwee. All of them do this, which is why you hate them.
# | 胡 | Barbarian | こ, う, ご ; なんぞ; きゅう | Old + Moon | The old moon (the moon we had before the current moon) was actually just a huge barbarian floating in the sky. Just imagine a huge barbarian (whatever that means to you) floating in the sky, looking down. Some ancient people look up and wave at the old moon barbarian. At least, this is the kind of story you told your 子 (こ) when they asked you where the moon came from. "You see, my child, the old moon was not like the current moon. It was a giant barbarian in the sky, who would eat children that asked too many questions."
# | 搭 | Board, Embark | とう | Fingers + Flowers + Suit | In your fingers are flowers which really suit you. But you throw them to the people waving to you from below, as you board your ship. The flowers fall, unneeded. You're embarking on a new life, a new journey. There will be more flowers where you're going. Picture yourself boarding the ship and letting the flowers slip from your fingers, into the crowd of people waving goodbye. You board a ship to とうきょう, bound for your new life, of course! Where else would you go at this point? I mean, come on. You've made it 53 levels since you embarked on your kanji journey with us. We know you by now. You want to be in とうきょう.
# | 錦 | Brocade | にしき ; きん | Gold + White + Towel | You weave gold and white patterns into this towel, turning it into brocade. It's beautiful, elegant, and worth way more than when it was just a plain towel. Imagine weaving this beautiful brocade fabric out of one of your old towels. Try to actually picture the gold and white patterns you want on there. If you're a crafter, actually do it! You want to keep your brocade fabrics safe, so you lock them away and seal them in with a niche key (にしき). It's niche because brocade is a very niche kind of thing. Imagine using your niche key to open this hidden brocade storage room. The key is gold and white and looks like brocade too!
# | 鯉 | Carp, Koi | こい ; り | Fish + Village | If you're in Japan, the fish in your village are carp. You may know them as koi, too. Picture your village in Japan. There's a big, still pond full of bright and beautiful giant carp. You hear the village kids giggle as they feed them and their big round mouths pop out of the water. A carp is called a koi (こい) in Japanese. We've used that word before so I hope you know it by now. A koi is a koi, you know? Carp are koi and koi are carp. Blub blub.
# | 胞 | Cell, Placenta | ほう | Moon + Wrap | Take the moon and wrap it in a bag and it will look just like a cell. It's a circle in a bigger circle. The moon is the nucleus. Yes! Science is happening! Picture the moon with a big bag circling it. Now look down at your biology homework on cells. They're identical! As you learn about cells you realize they're all over your home (ほう). Without ever noticing it, your home has been slowly filling with dead skin cells. And now that you know what they look like (the moon with a plastic wrap bag around it) you can see them everywhere. AHHH CLEAN ALL OF THESE CELLS OUT OF YOUR HOME!
# | 浄 | Cleanse, Purify | じょう, せい ; きよ | Tsunami + Conflict | The tsunami of conflict will cleanse and purify the lands of people, homes, and culture. Anything less than a tsunami of conflict would leave something behind. But this much conflict will cleanse the area of everything. Who could possibly stop this cleanse of all lands?! The only person capable of this is, of course, Joe (じょう), the local farmhand. He’s so tall and burly that he can stop even the largest of tsunamis… right? Joe has gone through many things during your WaniKani journey, but this might be too much even for him. Either way, he’s going to try his best to stop this tsunami of conflict, threatening to cleanse the lands of everything we know. With his bare hands, of course.
# | 帥 | Commander | すい | Drop + Bear + Towel | There's a drop of bear on this towel. A true commander can notice little things like this. Imagine a commander carefully looking over everything. They not only notice a drop of something on a towel, but they're able to identify that the drop is a small piece of liquid bear. You watch the commander in all his glory... going back and forth on a swing (すい). "Weeee!" says the commander.
# | 諒 | Comprehend, Reality | りょう ; あきら, まことに | Say + Capital | If you say something the same way they say it in the capital, everyone in the whole country will be able to comprehend what you're trying to say. If you try to speak in your hometown's dialect no one will. But everyone can comprehend what you want if you use the capital's dialect to say it. Imagine the confused faces of the people in the countryside as you try to talk to them. Decide to say it the way it's said in the capital and see their faces light up as they comprehend what you're trying to say. Now that the townspeople finally comprehend what you were trying to say, they sell you the row (りょう) boat you were trying to buy. You were using the wrong word, but りょう is what they needed to hear to understand you, and now you can row your way back home. Picture yourself rowing away in your new row boat as the townspeople wave goodbye. They were much nicer once they comprehended what you were asking for. Maybe you'll row your way back here someday.
# | 蒙 | Darkness | もう, ぼう ; おお, くら, こうむ | Flowers + Forehead + Ground + Pig | Flowers are growing out of the ground and over your pet pig's forehead and it's causing the poor thing to live in total darkness. The flowers are hanging down over its eyes and won't let any light in at all. And some of the flowers seem to be growing directly out of the pig's forehead too. The pig has just been wandering and bumping into things all day because of it. Imagine being a pig with flowers hanging down off your forehead and into your eyes so that darkness was all you knew. It's very sad, actually. To end the darkness you mow (もう) the flowers. You have to drive your lawnmower over its head too, because they're growing out of its forehead too. They'll grow back soon though and cover your pig's world in darkness once again and you'll have to do it all over again. Imagine mowing the darkness away. Be careful! If you mow the pig's eyes, the darkness will last forever!
# | 曙 | Dawn | あけぼの ; しょ | Sun + Net + Someone | The sun is rising and there is a net covering someone, who's being forced to watch as dawn appears. They've never seen dawn before, and they didn't want to, but you're making them. Picture someone tied down in a net as dawn breaks. The someone who saw dawn for the first time goes on to become sumo wrestling champ Akebono Taro (あけぼの). He always gazes at the sunrise at dawn before he wrestles and it fills him with strength. Look at Akebono looking at you as you look at dawn breaking.
# | 惨 | Disaster | さん, ざん ; みじ, いた, むご | Soul + Private + Big + Hair | If you get a big hair stuck in your private soul it will be a disaster! Have you ever gotten a hair in your eye or your mouth that you just couldn't get out? You cough, your eyes water, it's awful! You can't focus on anything until it's gone. Now imagine if a big 'ol hair got stuck in your own private soul!!! Disaster!!! This disaster is ruining your life. You can't eat, sleep, all you can do is panic trying to get the hair out. This disaster is so huge that even Santa-san (さん) left his vacation in Zanzibar (ざん) to come tell you you're on the naughty list for being such a disaster person. WHAT?! Even you Santa-san? Santa-san has forsaken you. Your life is a wreck. This is a total disaster just because of one big hair.
# | 稿 | Draft | こう ; したがき, わら | Grain + Tall | When what you're writing is as tall as the grains growing outside, you know you're done with your first draft. Some teachers want papers to be a certain number of words or pages, but that's silly. You should measure your draft in grains! Imagine holding your draft up outside in a field of grains. You're a couple leaves short. Time to get back to the drawing board. Who asked you to write such a tall draft in the first place? Emperor こういち, who wants you to draft up the world's largest book about how great of an emperor he is. Now こういち is out there measuring your draft against the tall grain plants. You better hope it's long enough, because if it isn't, Emperor こういち's probably going to execute you.
# | 啓 | Enlighten | けい ; さと, ひら | Door + Winter + Mouth | If you can find the door in winter shaped like a mouth it will enlighten you. Imagine searching for this special door in the cold wind and snow of winter. The search for enlightenment always has something to do with suffering and searching on your own like this. The door enlightened you by opening up and revealing the cake (けい) in its door-mouth. "Cake is the key to enlightenment, my child. Now eat it from my mouth." All you need to do to attain enlightenment is to eat this cake... out of this mouth. Eh. Maybe enlightenment isn't worth it.
# | 披 | Expose | ひ | Fingers + Skin | Press your fingers in someone's skin to expose what's underneath. This is pretty gross, but sometimes it's more important that you expose the cause of the problem, than avoiding something uncomfortable. Close your eyes. Picture someone's arm. Now touch their skin with your fingers and peel it back to expose the muscles and bones underneath. You expose a small hole under their skin and heat (ひ) comes pouring out. Aha! You knew there was something wrong under here. Apparently there's something under this person's skin that's exuding way too much heat. Imagine the heat steaming out, like it's coming out of a teapot, not out of somebody's arm skin.
# | 繊 | Fiber, Slender | せん | Thread + Cross + Spikes + Drunkard | A drunkard crosses thread across special spikes to separate the fibers. The best way to separate the fibers of thread is to get a drunkard to do it. If you're too precise it will just snap. You gotta be loose with it! Just flop them onto the spikes and the fibers will come apart by themselves! Imagine a drunkard crossing threads onto spikes and pulling the tiny fibers free. You don't think you could do that. Maybe if you got drunk too... You stare at the fibers easily coming apart when you realize that this drunkard seems to have a few extra legs... and hair and a tail? This isn't just a drunk guy, it's a centaur (せん). Maybe separating fibers is really a centaur trick, and that's why normal people can't do it... Watch the centaur cross the fibers and separate them with his spikes. How strange.
# | 徐 | Gently, Gentle | じょ ; おもむ | Loiter + Surplus | If you loiter around a surplus of anything, you need to be gentle and touch everything gently. Unfortunately it's not specific as to what kind of surplus you're loitering around, so you'll need to imagine a surplus of something memorable to you. Then, just imagine loitering around there, being really gentle with everything. You have to be gentle and handle these things gently because they belong to Jo-Anne (じょ). You're loitering around her surplus of (whatever you decided to imagine). Imagine Jo-Anne coming back to her surplus, then asking you if you were gentle with the goods. You were, you treated everything very gently.
# | 葵 | Hollyhock | あおい ; き | Flowers + Tent + Heaven | Flowers that are thought to be little tents sent from heaven are hollyhocks. They're shaped almost like little teepees and would make the perfect tent for a faerie or a little yokai! Picture a tiny yokai using a hollyhock as a tent. Aww cute! Hollyhocks are mostly あおい (blue) because they copy the color of the heavens, where they came from. Imagine yourself in a field of hollyhocks and the あおい of them match the あおい of the heavens! It's like you're standing on a giant flower filled mirror of the sky.
# | 騰 | Inflation | とう ; あが, のぼ | Moon + Gladiator + Horse | While the moon is out, a gladiator is riding a horse, yelling about inflation. No one would listen to him during the day, so he waited for the moon to rise so he could complain about prices doing the same. Picture the gladiator riding his horse in the light of the moon yelling, "Do you have any idea how important it is to increase the average pay rate to account for inflation? All of us gladiators are going to be unable to pay the bills soon because inflation isn't being taken into account! You'll suffer too! Listen to me!" Inflation rises the most in とうきょう, and the gladiator knows that because that's where most of them live and fight (and die). Imagine if you were in this gladiator's place. In five years, you wouldn't be able to afford to eat thanks to the bosses in とうきょう refusing to adjust for inflation. Back in my day, onigiri only cost FIFteen yen!
# | 据 | Install | す ; きょ | Fingers + Flag + Old | You use your fingers to take down the old flag and install a new one. Flags get old, just like computers and furniture and people. So when one gets too old, you have to get on up there and install a new one in its place. Imagine reaching out and grabbing onto the old flag with your fingers. Feel the dirty grime and little holes it's gotten. Now install something new! You've decided to install a suit (す) where the old flag used to be. I mean, a suit is probably more durable than a flag, am I right? This way you won't have to install flags as often. Picture a newly installed suit flying in the air on a pole.
# | 莉 | Jasmine | り, れい, らい | Flowers + Grain + Knife | You cut the flowers off the grain with your knife. The flowers that fall off are jasmine flowers. It's weird that jasmine flowers are growing out of your grain, but that's why you're cutting them off. The jasmine is growing out of everything, not just grain! It's also growing out of the reeds (り)! You have a farm that grows grain and reeds. Jasmine flowers are growing out of both of those things, ruining your crops! Perhaps you should become a jasmine tea farmer instead...
# | 緯 | Latitude | い ; ぬき, よこいと | Thread + Korea | The thread that goes through Korea is the latitude line splitting up North and South Korea. Why thread? Back in the old days globes were sewn together with cloth and thread, so there was a literal thread dividing the Koreas! Or you can just picture an actual, super long piece of thread going around the entire globe. That works too. The only way you can see this latitude line is to ride an eagle (い) over it. The line isn't visible from a car, you're too close, and a plane is too high. You have to see it from an eagle's point of view. Imagine being an eagle yourself, flying around the entire globe, following the latitude line that splits Korea down the middle.
# | 瓜 | Melon | か, け ; うり | Melon | The melon radical and the melon kanji are exactly the same! Wahoo! Make sure you remember this radical means melon and you'll remember the kanji meaning too! What's the best use for a melon? Not eating it, but running over it in your car (か)! Melons make a nice big splat sound when you drive over them, and that's what you plan to do to every melon you see. Imagine hitting the gas pedal in your car as you head for a big melon. Watch it burst into a million pieces as your car makes contact, hurling melon bits all over your windshield. It's a melon firework!
# | 虐 | Oppress | ぎゃく ; しいた | Tiger + Wolverine | Tigers and wolverines have one big thing in common and it's that the government likes to oppress them. It doesn't matter if you're the animal or a mutant X-Men hybrid. The government will go out of its way to oppress you if you are one. Imagine being a tiger or a wolverine or a tiger-wolverine and being oppressed by the government just because you're different. Imagine being stuck in a cage. Not being allowed to vote. It's awful! Tiger and wolverine people are so oppressed that the only thing they're allowed to amuse themselves with is Gak (ぎゃく). You know, that weird goo they made us play with when we were kids? Well that's not so fun when it's all you have. Imagine being a tiger/wolverine girl and being so oppressed that you can only sit in a cage, playing with goopy Gak all day. This blows...
# | 戴 | Receive | たい ; いただ | Cross + Drunkard + Rice Paddy + Together | A cross carrying drunkard wants you to go to a rice paddy together so you can receive something from them. You really don't want to receive whatever it is this drunkard wants to give you, and it's even sketchier that they want you to go to a rice paddy together to do it. Against your better judgement, you decided to go and receive the thing. You close your eyes, hold out your hands, and feel a silky, light tie (たい) being placed in them. The tie looks harmless enough, but you still receive it skeptically. The drunkard is just holding up his cross and smiling at you. Hmm.
# | 艇 | Rowboat | てい | Boat + Yoga + King | A boat owned by a Yoga King needs to be able to let him keep doing his exercises while he's on it. That's why his boat is a rowboat, so he can work on his yoga arms as he gets around. Picture the Yoga King rowing a rowboat. Maybe he's using his legs. Maybe he's using his butt? You don't know. Yoga people are super flexible, he could be using anything to move this rowboat. As he rows the rowboat with his butt, you see the Yoga King eating something with his toes. They're tater tots (てい). Tater tots are the perfect snack for a rowboat. They're small, delicious, and they float if you drop them in the water. Go rent a rowboat and try eating tater tots in it. For fun, throw a bunch of them in the water and watch them float. Maybe you'll catch a fish!
# | 丹 | Rust Colored, Red, Sincerity | たん ; に | Boat | This is a boat, but it's missing some pieces. That's because it's really rusty, so parts are falling off of it and it looks rust colored. In ancient Chinese literature, this rusty red color represented sincerity, and you'll often see this kanji take that meaning in jukugo words. Picture this broken, rust colored boat. It's a reddish-brown color and it's definitely missing some important pieces. The rust colored boat has inspired you, so you sit down next to it in the sun and tan (たん). You want to be the exact same rust color as the boat, and in a few hours you're sure you'll match. Watch your skin slowly change as you tan to match the rust colored boat. Feel your skin in the sun. This may not be good for your health, but it's great for fashion!
# | 緋 | Scarlet | ひ ; あか, あけ | Thread + Criminal | The threads a criminal wears will always be scarlet. Scarlet is the color of freshly spilt blood, which is why bad guys wear it so much. Picture a person wearing all scarlet all the time. Don't they give you a criminal-y vibe? This scarlet color holds a lot of heat (ひ). Scarlet is the color of fire, and it has the heat of fire too. Picture a criminal, covered in this scarlet thread, heat radiating off of him.
# | 舗 | Shop, Pave | ほ | Cottage + Wedding | You want to have a quaint cottage wedding, so you have to go to the cottage wedding shop to get everything you need. Unfortunately, there’s no road to the shop, so… you’ll just have to pave one yourself! Every shop needs a road, so get to paving. Imagine the incredibly laborious task of paving an entire road by yourself, just to get to this cottage wedding shop. You really want your quaint little cottage wedding though, so it’s the only choice you have… You're browsing everything in the shop when a garden hoe (ほ) catches your eye. Yes. This will make your cottage wedding the absolute best one. The hoe will give you away at your wedding. Imagine walking around the shop and then falling in love with a hoe with pretty tassels and flowers attached to it. Yes, it's only for decoration, but you're going to buy and use it during your cottage wedding.
# | 壌 | Soil, Earth | じょう ; つち | Dirt + Nurse | A dirt nurse is someone who nurses dirt. When nursed, dirt becomes soil. Soil generally has more nutrients in it. It makes sense for dirt that's been nursed to become soil. Soil is a thing that Joe (じょう), the huge farmhand, works on improving. If he makes the soil better, the farm will yield more crops. That kind of makes Joe a dirt or soil nurse, if you think about it. Not sure he’d like that title, though…
# | 駿 | Speed | しゅん, すん ; すぐ; はやお | Horse + Spider | When a horse sees a spider it will start running at a speed no one ever thought a horse could go! Horses are super afraid of spiders, you see, so if they see one, they'll bolt and reach top speed! That's actually the only way to get a horse to run that fast. Imagine the eyes of a horse seeing a spider and then running at top speed to get the heck away from it. Once people realize that they can increase the speed of their horses, soon (しゅん) everyone will be taking spiders with them to scare their horses into running faster. I say soon because it hasn't quite caught on yet. But if you help to spread the word it can happen even sooner. Soon the world will be filled with horses running at full speed all thanks to the spider increase of the 2000s! Soon we will be in the future of top speeds!
# | 剰 | Surplus | じょう ; あまつさえ, あま | Grain + Mouth + Knife | There's so much grain in your mouth you need to use a knife to remove it. Only when there is a surplus can you put that much grain in your mouth. Imagine seeing so much grain that you can stuff your mouth so full you can't swallow or spit it out. You have to use a knife to remove it. After you get all the grain out, comment on the surplus of grain. The surplus is thanks to the hard work of folks like Joe (じょう), the big farmhand. He worked hard to make sure there was a surplus of grain this year. Remember how Joe made the soil better? Perhaps this is some of that work paying off. Thanks to that and everything else, there is a great surplus.
# | 寛 | Tolerance | かん ; くつろ | Roof + Flowers + See | The roof flowers see everything. But, they only see. That is because they learned the art of tolerance. These roof flowers only see because they do not judge. They accept everything. We humans can learn a thing or two about tolerance from these roof flowers. Tolerance is one thing that Genghis Khan (かん) had a surprising amount of. You wouldn't expect it, but he actually allowed many types of cultures, religions, and peoples to exist under his reign. The Mongols had an exceptional amount of tolerance for the time.
# | 且 | Also | か ; しょ, しょう, そ | Top Hat | If you want to wear a top hat you also have to wear a suit to go with it. You can't just wear a top hat, that just doesn't look right. When you think top hat, think about what you also need with it. Picture all the things you also need. A suit, a tie, a monocle, some shiny shoes. There's also ... something... else. What is it? You have a top hat and all the clothes that go with it but you also need a nice car (か) too! You can't just get all dressed up and then have no way to get anywhere to show it off. Think about all the things you also need when you wear a top hat. The car is probably the most important addition. Otherwise no one can see the top hat in the first place!
# | 顕 | Appear, Exist | けん ; あきらか, あらわ | Sun + Spikes + Geoduck | When the sun comes up the spikes of geoducks appear. The spikes don't just come out of the geoduck, they literally appear out of thin air. They didn't even exist before the sun touched them. You watch these spikes appear and suddenly Ken (けん)the samurai also appears next to you. "I DID IT!" he shouts, "I've learned how to appear out of thin air!" "Thank you sweet geoduck, you have taught me the way of appearing with your spikes."
# | 杏 | Apricot | あんず ; あん, きょう, こう | Tree + Mouth | What does a tree make that you'd want to put in your mouth? An apricot! Apricots are also about the size of an open mouth, so they kind of look like mouths hanging down under the trees. You can bite them right off the tree with your own mouth! Picture the mouth sized apricots hanging down off the tree. Imagine using your own mouth to bite them down. Just don't swallow the pit! After you put the apricot in your mouth you realize that this tastes really familiar, but not pleasant. It tastes just like the anchovies (あん) from the zoo (ず) smell. How did that happen? You don't like apricots anymore. Imagine trying to eat the bite sized apricot and spitting it out after the taste of anchovies from the zoo fill you up.
# | 栞 | Bookmark | しおり ; かん | Dry + Tree | Dry an already dry tree to create a bookmark. The more you dry the tree, the flatter it becomes, making it the perfect way to mark your spot in a book without needing to fold a page or write on it. To be fair, books are just dry trees in a way, but bookmarks are actually dry, dry trees that have flattened out and turned into chunks. What are you bookmarking anyway? Look down and see yourself putting one of the tree bookmarks on a page in your notebook that says "She owes me reeds (しおり)." Oh yeah, you had to make this bookmark in the first place because your friend took your reed bookmarks and didn't give them back. What does she owe you? Open the page to your bookmark and see she owes reeds!
# | 欄 | Column, Space | らん ; てすり | Tree + Gate + East | You see a bunch of trees lined up outside of the gate to the east and realize they look like perfect columns. It seems like a building or a castle should be resting above them. Picture these column trees outside the gate to the east. You end up drawing them in the columns of your graph paper because they fit so well. Out of the tree columns bursts professional wrestler Randy (らん) Savage! "Oooh I'm talking about columns that I like mmmm oh yeaah. The Macho Man loves columns MMm OOHH YEAAH~!" Now draw Randy Savage in the columns on your graph paper. He just seems to fit there now.
# | 庶 | Common, All Sorts | しょ | Yurt + Boil | Who goes into their yurt to boil things? The common people! All sorts of people do it, it's really common. You don't boil things outside, do you? Wait, you're telling me you didn't know it's common to boil things in yurts? Excuse me? Here, the common people all do this, so just let me show (しょ) you how. First you go into your yurt, and… Hey, pay attention and watch what I'm showing you! Okay, now that I've shown you what to do, you can fit in with the common people here.
# | 冠 | Crown, Cap | かん ; かんむり | Forehead + Origin + Measurement | Your forehead is the origin for the measurement for your crown! If you measure somewhere else on your head for a crown it won't fit. Imagine someone putting a tape measure around your forehead and taking careful measurements for your crown. They better not mess up, or you'll have them put to death! You want your crown to be just like Genghis Khan's (かん), which was more of a cap. He's your hero though, because he ruled over the most people, so you want yours to match his measurements. Why don't you go look up what Genghis Khan's crown/cap looked like. Then try to imagine how it would look atop your head.
# | 酷 | Cruel, Unjust | こく ; ひど, むご | Alcohol + Announce | If you announce that alcohol is illegal you're just being cruel. Honestly, saying no one can have any alcohol at all is totally unjust. They tried that in the 1920s and it didn't work then either, so cut it out! Let people drink what they want to drink! Imagine if your country's leader announced that there would be no more alcohol. People would be in the streets in seconds calling them cruel and unjust! After this cruel announcement is made everyone will turn to the next best thing after alcohol. Coke (こく)! It's not a replacement, but if this unjust law won't change, then coke sales are going to go through the roof. Imagine drinking coke while complaining how unjust it is that you can't add rum to it.
# | 叙 | Describe | じょ ; つい, ついで | Surplus + Stool | The surplus stool, please describe it. You have a surplus (extra) stool, and someone wants it. But, they need to know more about it, so you describe it in great detail. Imagine yourself doing just that. Every screw and nubbin is described. You describe the features of the stool to Jo-Anne (じょ). Jo-Anne is really excited about this stool. It's the perfect height for her (remember, she's on the shorter side to distinguish じょ from じょう). She pays attention to you describing the stool while sitting on it and spinning around. Have her ask for you to describe it more.
# | 逸 | Deviate, Elude | いつ ; そ, はぐ | Scooter + Excuse | Jump on a scooter to excuse yourself from answering a question and you've successfully deviated from that nosey person's plan! You've also been able to elude them pretty well. Imagine excusing yourself by scooting away on a scooter. If they want to get your answer, they'll have to chase you. You deviate from the plan a little too well, and as you're scooting, what you've done eats (いつ) away at you. You feel guilty for eluding them... Welp, it's too late to turn back now. You've already deviated pretty far, and you're not even sure where you are now. You were too busy trying to elude that person that you didn't look where your scooter was taking you.
# | 紋 | Family Crest | もん | Thread + Writing | You use thread and writing to sew our family crest. You've been sewing your family crest since you were a kid, you could do it today with your eyes closed. Imagine the thread slowly forming the writing that makes up your family crest. You're making a scarf with your crest on it. It's like a wizarding school house symbol. Your family crest is of a monster! (もん) And the writing says "Our Family Monster." What kind of monster is on your family crest? Picture it in your mind right now. Now tweet to us @wanikaniapp because I really want to know what you came up with!!
# | 阿 | Flatter | あ, お ; おもね, くま | Building + Lip Ring | You see a building with a lip ring and it's just so cute you have to flatter it. "That lip ring looks wonderful on you, Buildingさん," you say. Flattering buildings is just as nice as flattering people, as long as they're okay with it. The building is flattered and you hear it shout, "Ah (あ)!" and blush. The entire building turns red. The "ah" the building made was actually quite loud, and since you've never heard a building speak before, it scared you pretty bad. But at least you know the building was flattered by your compliment (I think.)
# | 愚 | Foolish | ぐ ; おろ | Splinter + Heart | If you give Splinter your heart you'll feel pretty foolish afterwards. His heart belongs to the art of ninjutsu! You were foolish to give your heart away to Splinter. He didn't want it. Also he's a rat, what's wrong with you? Splinter tells you to your face how foolish you are and you feel your heart turn to goo (ぐ). Now you can't even give it to someone else. No one wants goo. What will you do with your foolish goo heart now?
# | 尚 | Furthermore, Esteem | しょう ; なお | Triceratops + Mustache | A triceratops with a mustache will go on talking forever. Every time you think he's done he says, "Furthermore..." and keeps going. Something about a mustache on a dinosaur makes him kind of a jerk, but he's held in such high esteem that no one ever interrupts him. Imagine this mustachioed triceratops. He probably has a monocle and a fedora too. Every time you think you can talk or leave he says, "Furthermore" again. Come on guy, how much do you have to say? Why don't you just interrupt this mustache triceratops while he's saying furthermore? Because he's the Shougun's (しょう) pet. If you interrupt him you'll probably be put to death or something. Just let him keep going and hope he runs out of furthermores to talk about. "Furthermore!" the mustachioed triceratops points at the Shougun, "He is the best Shougun we'll ever have. And he'll let me talk forever OH OH OH!"
# | 拐 | Kidnap | かい | Fingers + Mouth + Sword | A mouth with a sword is threatening to cut off your fingers because they've kidnapped you! You can't see anything about them, since they're all covered up. All you see is their angry mouth and the sword they keep putting near your fingers. Imagine you've been kidnapped. And the person who kidnapped you is going to cut off some of your fingers and mail them to your parents if they don't pay the ransom soon enough. You don't want your fingers to be cut off with a sword! Help! You've been kidnapped and your kidnapper has asked for one thing in exchange for your safe return: a kayak (かい). Kayaks are expensive. And it's way easier for this dude to kidnap you and demand your family buy one and give it to them than for them to work for one. If your parents don't send in the kayak to your kidnapper soon, you're gonna lose some fingers. Come on guys, just get the kayak already!!!
# | 悠 | Leisure | ゆう | Leader + Stick + Winter + Heart | The leader who usually hits you with a stick in winter finds it in his heart to give you some leisure time. You fall to your knees, "Oh thank you for not hitting me with your stick and letting me relax!" You haven't had a moment of leisure in ages! You're just about to start your leisure time when a group of youths (ゆう) appears with their own sticks. You look back for the leader, and he's wearing a bathrobe, sunglasses, and is drinking some hot cocoa. Wait... this is leisure time for... HIM?! OH NO! As the leader leisurely watches, the youths smack you with their sticks. What a cruel world! "Enjoy your leisure time," the leader yells over, "the youths hit much softer than I do. Have fun!"
# | 勲 | Merit | くん ; いさお | Heavy + Power + Boil | You're in a really important position, heavy with power, but you can't carry all of that around with you, so you boil it all down to just a few merits. Most people in places heavy with power, like the scouts, boil down all of their responsibilities and accomplishments this way into merit badges. The only problem with consolidating your merits like this is that raccoons (くん) are always trying to steal them. Raccoons really like shiny, small things. Like, say, the physical representation of all your personal and professional merits. This is why you never see a military officer or a girl scout leaving their merit badges out in the open. They pin them right onto their clothes. Otherwise the raccoons would come.
# | 疎 | Neglect, Sparse | そ, しょ ; うと, まば | Coat Rack + Bundle | A coat rack will turn into a bundle of sticks if you neglect it. When you neglect a coat rack, the weight from the coats will pull all of the arms off, leaving it as a sparse stick. Picture this sparse, neglected coat rack. All of its arms and the coats that were on it have fallen off and are in a big pile on the ground. You go up to the neglected coat rack and try to make things right by cleaning it with soap (そ). But no matter how much you scrub, it won't get clean, the arms won't go back on. If you neglect something for too long, not even a good soap scrub will bring it back. That goes for humans too. Take care of yourselves. Use soap.
# | 謡 | Noh Chanting, Noh Chant | よう ; うた | Say + Satellite | Whatever you say through a satellite turns into Noh chanting. It gets all drawn out and distorted from going through the satellite, which makes it SOUND like Noh chanting at least. Say whatever you want and send it up to the satellite. Now imagine listening to it when it comes back and hearing beautiful, deep Noh chanting back! While you're fake Noh chanting you have to pause every few minutes to take a bite of yogurt (よう). Yogurt is good for the throat! At least you think it is. It's not like you're actually chanting, the satellite is doing all the real work. Watch closely the next time you go to a Noh play. See the man Noh chanting? Watch close enough and you'll see him eat a scoop of yogurt every once in a while.
# | 栽 | Planting | さい | Plow + Drunkard | A drunkard gets his hands on a plow and starts planting right away. Drunk people are surprisingly good at planting, especially when they have machines to help them do it. Picture a drunk guy laughing and plowing a field and planting seeds. He wouldn't do this if he was sober, but drunk people can't help themselves. He keeps planting and planting... a little too much. You walk over and realize this drunkard isn't just any guy... he's YOUR CYBORG (さい)! Oh my sweet cyborg child! Is this what they've done with you? You're just a drunkard who's only good for planting? Nooooooo!!
# | 践 | Practice, Trample | せん ; ふ | Foot + Bar | You put your foot on the bar at the gymnasium at your very first practice. That's a big accomplishment since you're here learning how to walk on that long bar like all the cool gymnasts. But you can't just start right away, you need lots of practice so that's why you're here in this class. But so far you got your foot on the bar already, good for you! Picture your foot touching the bar. This is it. This is exactly what you're at this gym to practice. This type of practice is especially hard for you because you're a centaur (せん). You only have hooves for feet, and balancing on a bar is going to be a huge hurdle. But your teacher promised if you practiced enough you could make it, and here you are! With your hoofed foot on the bar! Picture your centaur foot on the bar as you practice to become a gymnast. It's going to take years and years of this kind of practice, but you're sure you'll make it all the way up there some day! Never give up!
# | 呈 | Present, Display | てい | Mouth + King | The Mouth King, who is just one big mouth, has one skill, and that is to present. That big mouth is always presenting something. Imagine the Mouth King giving a presentation about the importance of mouths. His subjects all flatter him by saying, "Please, please, present to us about mouths again! We truuuuuuly love it!" "I will present to you a presentation about mouths, but I require energy. Please fill my giant mouth body with delicious tater (てい) tots. You pour a bucket of tater tots into his mouth body and he continues his presentation about mouths. "You see, mouths are just orifices..."
# | 傲 | Proud | ごう ; あなど, おご | Leader + Dirt + Direction + Winter | Your leader managed to find the right direction home using marks in the dirt in the middle of winter. This makes you so proud! You're proud because this resourceful leader is YOUR resourceful leader. Imagine how proud you and your whole country feel as your leader comes trudging in through the snow. He made it home. You're (sniff) so (sob) proud! This leader you're so proud of is none other than Grandpa ごういち. He's been getting a bit slow over the years, and you really didn't think he'd make it back. But, by gum, he did it. Let's be honest here, Grandpa ごういち isn't getting any younger. You really should be proud of him for surviving this long at all.
# | 疾 | Rapidly, Rapid | しつ ; はや | Sick + Arrow | A sickness that hits you like an arrow will do its gross work rapidly. It's not a good thing, you're gonna get really sick really fast. Picture this rapid sickness spreading through your body like a cartoon arrow ricocheting through your body. Yuck! This rapid sickness makes your head pound like there's a shih tzu (しつ) yapping and barking nonstop. And it's making you sh*t a lot. Imagine getting sick this rapidly. All of a sudden, there's a shih tzu barking in your head, it hurts! And... oh no, where's the toilet?!
# | 茜 | Red Dye, Madder | あかね ; せん | Flowers + West | Flowers that grow in the west are colored by the sun setting so they turn bright red. That's why red flowers that grow in the west are used to make red dye. They're the closest to the actual color of the red sun, so they're prized by painters and other artists for their perfect color for dye. Picture yourself sitting in the west as the red sun sets, smashing those pretty red flowers into a paste to make red dye. Your fingers get dyed red too and you crush the petals into a paste. As you're smashing the flowers into red dye, a little girl comes up to you and points at the paste. She says, "赤ね (あかね)?" (That's red, right?) You look down at the red dye on your fingers and nod. She's right, it is red. Hear the little girl say あかね while pointing to the red dye. She's right. And the way she says it is so darn cute.
# | 酬 | Repay | しゅう, しゅ, とう ; むく | Alcohol + Drop + River | You took someone's alcohol and drop drop drop'd it all into the river. Now you have to repay them. Alcohol costs a lot of money, you know. Picture yourself dropping the alcohol, drop by drop, into the river. Uh oh, the person just caught up to you, so you better repay them. In order to repay them for the alcohol you wasted, you offer to give them your shoes (しゅう). They don't want your shoes though, so you have to bring them to a store and watch them try on a bunch of different pairs so you can repay them that way. Imagine waiting as this person tries on like twenty different pairs of shoes. They're getting them for free! Why do they have to be picky?! Just let me repay you already!
# | 呆 | Shock | ほう ; あき, おろか, ほけ, ぼ | Mouth + Tree | You see a mouth coming out of the top of a tree so you go into shock. Your brain just can't comprehend what's in front of you. A tree... with... a... mouth? No, it can't be... I... a-. Your face warps into a permanent state of shock. The shock you've suffered results in you needing to stay home (ほう) from now on. You don't get to travel, explore, or even get groceries. You're homebound from now on, buddy. I'd be shocked if you ever left your home again, honestly. But hey, there's always anime.
# | 鎌 | Sickle, Scythe | かま ; けん, れん | Gold + Mona Lisa | You cast the Mona Lisa in gold and attach it to a stick to turn it into a sickle! It's really big and bulky, but when you swing it fast enough your new sickle cuts lots of wheat! Just don't tell anyone what you did with the famous Mona Lisa painting and you should be able to get away with this! Imagine wielding your gold Mona Lisa sickle. It's sooo heavy, but it's really shiny and it cuts grass and wheat pretty well! Now that you've turned the Mona Lisa into a sickle, you have to change the little description under its name in the Louvre. You draw a giant comma (かま) next to "Mona Lisa" and write "THE SICKLE." Then you shove it back on the wall as best you can. Hear all the guests say, "Mona Lisa... comma the sickle? WHAT'S HAPPENED HERE?!" As panic ensues. You like your addition and you're very proud.
# | 粛 | Solemn | しゅく, すく ; つつし | Wolverine + Stick + Legs + Rice | A wolverine that sticks its legs in rice will become very solemn, very fast. This is weird to you because wolverines always seem so happy. Well his dad died from his legs getting stuck in rice, so just leave the poor solemn creature alone. Imagine if your dad died from getting his legs stuck in some rice, now feel solemn too. Remember how solemn wolverine looked when his dad died? You hated seeing him like this so you ran up and shook (しゅく) him. You shook the solemn sadness right out of him! You should do that again now! Imagine seeing how violently you shook him. You shook him so hard his solemn mood disappeared!
# | 茎 | Stem | くき ; きょう, けい | Flowers + Tombstone | When you leave flowers on a tombstone they look good at first, but after a few days or some harsh weather, there's nothing left but stems. That's why you have to replace flowers on tombstones all the time. If you don't it will look like you only left the stems there, and that's pretty disrespectful. Imagine being in a graveyard looking at all the tombstones and seeing nothing but stems on all of them. All the pretty flowery parts have died and blown away. You have an idea that can make these tombstones look better than just having leftover stems all over them. You brought cookies (くき)! Cookies don't fall apart in the wind, and everyone loves cookies, alive or dead. You replace the stems with the cookies and everything looks a lot nicer. Look at all the cookie covered tombstones. Now your bag is full of stems, but you can use them to make more cookies to bring back next time. Don't worry, nobody eats them. Stem cookies are probably poisonous.
# | 痴 | Stupid | ち ; おろか, し | Sick + Arrow + Mouth | You're sick because you put an arrow in your mouth and tried to eat it. To be honest, that's just really stupid. You have to be stupid to try to eat an arrow. You deserve to be sick. How stupid do you have to be to put arrows into your mouth until it makes you sick? Pretty darn stupid, it seems. The only way to cure this serious case of stupid is to make you eat cheese (ち). Not only will it fix your sick stomach by cushioning all the arrows that you shoved in your stupid mouth, but it should send smart cheese waves to your brain and cure you of that stupid all together. Imagine if everyone knew that cheese cures the stupid out of people. Then maybe we would have more cheese and less stupid in the world!
# | 哺 | Suckle, Nurse | ほ ; ほぐく, ふく | Mouth + Wedding | After your wedding you have a baby and it uses its mouth to suckle from your post-wedding boobs. Yes, babies nurse from breasts. Get over it, kids. You waited until your wedding to have your baby and all it seems to do with its mouth is suckle. It doesn't cry, which is nice, but it doesn't laugh or talk either. The baby wants to nurse all day and the only thing you can seem to do at the same time is hoe (ほ) your garden. You hold the baby to your breast with one arm and hoe little rows with the other. It's actually a great workout and a nice way to spend time! This hoe has really helped you get through nursing. You think you'll keep this up even after your baby is weaned! Hoeing the garden is your new favorite hobby!
# | 荘 | Villa | そう, しょう, ちゃん ; あごそ, ほうき | Flowers + Icicle + Samurai | Clearing his flowers of icicles, the samurai returns home to his villa. Picture the samurai's villa. It's in the countryside and covered in flowers and icicles. Even though it's spring, it's still cold, so all the new flowers are very cold. Once the samurai enters the villa, he lets his soul (そう) go. He's been fighting for long enough and this villa was always where he wanted to go. Picture the samurai sitting in a chair in his beautiful villa and breathing his last breath. His soul slowly floats up and out of his still body and dances around the villa, free.
# | 鯨 | Whale | げい ; くじら | Fish + Capital | If you travel to the fish capital, you'll find the leader of all fish, the mighty whale! Okay, so a whale isn't technically a fish, but that's why it makes such a good leader. You can usually only find whales hanging around near the capital because they really enjoy ruling over all the other fish. They are the biggest, after all. Picture the underwater fish capital. Statues of whales line the fishy streets, and all of the fish bow down to the whale ruler's giant body. The whale who resides over the capital just happens to be gay (げい). You only know this because his husband is a man whale too. Actually, now that you think about it, all the whales you've ever met have been gay. Picture the gay whale ruler holding whale hands... fins? with his whale husband. They're so cute.
# | 卸 | Wholesale | おろし, おろ ; しゃ | Noon + Stop + Stamp | You should stop to buy stamps at noon because that's the only time they're being sold at wholesale price. Everyone's so busy eating and working and being at school, that they miss this awesome deal, but not you. Everyday at noon you stock up on wholesale stamps. Do you send a lot of mail? No, you probably just collect them. But they were cheap, so who cares! Imagine yourself stopping at the empty bank at noon, grabbing a handful of wholesale stamps. So many stamps. So few extra charges. Oh, one more thing. Going at noon isn't enough, you have to say the password to get them at wholesale price too. The password is "Oh Roshi" (おろし). Okay, so maybe that's just the name of the guy there, but it always works when I want to get stamps wholesale so you should do it too! "Oh Roshi" you say carefully as you hand your stamps over at noon. The guy raises an eyebrow at you, but gives you them wholesale! It worked!
# | 累 | Accumulate | るい | Rice Paddy + Thread | You start growing thread in your rice paddy to accumulate more. You didn't want to have to buy any, so you're just trying to grow thread with your rice. That seems like a good way to accumulate more to you. Just imagine how much thread you'll accumulate if you can just grow it along with your rice in the rice paddy! So much thread! Sadly, this is a terrible way to accumulate anything thread related and you ended up ruining (るい) your rice paddy too. I guess if you want to accumulate thread this isn't the way to do it. Your attempts to accumulate more of something by cheating have brought ruin to everything else you were doing. Nice job, dummy.
# | 伏 | Bow, Lay | ふく ; ふ | Leader + Dog | When you meet the leader dog you have to bow to show your respect. Dogs are pretty great, so the leader of all dogs must be the greatest! You should bow really deeply to this one. Picture yourself bowing to the leader dog. Leader dog is so cool! You bow as low as you can, but you lose your balance and fall over. "F**k you (ふく)!" the leader dog barks. Oh no. You messed up and now the leader dog is super mad. Saying f**k you is a little harsh for falling over though, you think. Bow even deeper as the dog leader keeps barking what sounds like f**k you. You're pretty sure that's what he's saying at least... but maybe... maybe it's not.
# | 虜 | Captive | りょ, ろ ; とりく, とりこ | Tiger + Man | When a man meets a tiger he makes the tiger his captive. Men are pretty crappy like that. They see tigers and they want to put them in cages, so the poor tiger becomes a captive of the man. Picture the sad tiger captive and the man laughing as he pokes at it. Tigers shouldn't be captives but when men find them they always seem to do this anyway. The captive tiger is even sadder because the man put him in a robe (りょ) and is making him act like a human. Tigers look good in robes, but they don't really enjoy being forced into people clothing. Picture the poor captive tiger being stuffed into a bathrobe and paraded around a cage for the man.
# | 循 | Circulation, Sequential | じゅん | Loiter + Cliff + Pope | If you want to loiter on a cliff with the pope you better be ready to move in perfect circulation with him. The pope is wearing really heavy robes and it's hot up here on this cliff, so you both need to walk in circles to keep cool. Imagine this strange circulation of you and the pope up here on a cliff. It's not even like you two are up here for a reason, you're just loitering. But he doesn't want to be hot so he makes you circulate with him. This circulation wouldn't have to even be happening if it wasn't June (じゅん). The cliffs are so hot in June, and in any other month the two of you would have just sat down and had a chat. But in June you have to do this weird circulation dance. "This circulation is all June's fault," you mutter, walking in a circle with the pope to stay cool.
# | 粗 | Coarse, Rough | そ ; あら | Rice + Top Hat | If you find some rice in a top hat it's going to be really coarse and rough. Probably because it's not the kind that's meant to be eaten. Imagine trying to eat the rice you found in a top hat. It's so coarse it feels like it's scratching your teeth. There's probably some dirt in here too. This wasn't the best idea. You take the coarse rice and try to wash it with soap (そ). If you were trying to make this coarse rice taste like soap, you did it. But if you were trying to make it less coarse, well... sorry, but that's not how anything works.
# | 凝 | Congeal, Freeze, Absorbed In | ぎょう ; こ, こご | Ice + Doubt | If you try to turn something into ice while having doubts, it will just congeal instead. It will freeze, but it will get kinda yucky too. Your doubts will affect the ice-making process, so try not to be so worried and unsure next time you want normal ice. Imagine looking over water in an ice cube tray. You aren't sure if they'll turn out alright, and you doubt whether ice is even a thing. As you think this, the water congeals and freezes into gross shapes. You always end up congealing your gyoza (ぎょう) this way. You want to freeze your leftover gyoza so you can enjoy it later, but you doubt it will turn out all right and it always congeals in a gross, half-frozen gyoza block. Yuck! Picture frozen, congealed gyoza. Do you want to eat that? I didn't think so.
# | 栓 | Cork, Plug | せん | Tree + Hat + King | The king has a hat that's made from a tree but the more you look at it, the more it looks like it's just a big cork. It's a big, wooden plug that he's just placed on his head. It can hardly be called a hat. Picture how silly the king looks with this cork on his head. He kind of looks like a fat, plugged up bottle of wine when he yells now. It turned out this cork hat was given to him by a centaur (せん). You look into it and it turned out it IS a really big cork that centaurs use on their big wine casks. But the king didn't understand, and thought it was a hat. The centaurs are probably still laughing. Picture the centaurs drinking and giggling, putting the cork from their wine on their head to imitate the stupid king.
# | 瑛 | Crystal | えい | King + Flowers + Center | The king of the flowers in the center (of England, if you remember) has a special crystal. The king crystal. Picture the king holding this crystal aloft, giggling as the sun shines through it and sparkles. The king thinks everyone wants his crystal so he hides it in the giant acorn (えい) in the center of the flowers in England. There's a tiny hole in the bottom of the acorn, and that's where this crystal stays hidden. Imagine going to England, to the giant acorn in the center of the flowers, and searching for the king's crystal. If you find it, you can probably sell it for a fortune! Or just make a really sweet necklace.
# | 旦 | Dawn | たん, だん ; あきら, あき, あさ, あした, ただし | Dawn | The dawn radical and the dawn kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! Dawn is dawn (だん)! It's also a great time to get a tan (たん). The sun is bright at dawn, but not so much that it will send skin cancer rays into you. Imagine getting a tan at dawn. Ahh. Relaxing and warm.
# | 奉 | Dedicate | ほう, ぶ ; たてまつ, まつ, ほう | Spring + Dry | When spring is dry you need to dedicate your time and effort somewhere else. You can't plant flowers or vegetables, it's too dry. You can't play outside, your skin will flake. So you need to dedicate yourself to something inside. You know how you get. When you can't go outside, you dedicate yourself full force into something else. I mean, you made it to level 55, right? That's some serious dedication. And it probably started because of one particularly dry spring. You decide to dedicate yourself to your home (ほう). You don't want to be outside in the dry spring air, so you focus on home activities. You can clean the kitchen, build a shelf, or dedicate your time to your home internet system. Dedicate yourself to doing things in your home! Haha, who are we kidding, you already did that. We love you, nerd. ♡
# | 遼 | Distant | りょう | Scooter + Charcoal | You got off your scooter to load some charcoal onto it, when it suddenly took off to a distant place! That's some powerful charcoal. Your scooter is charcoal powered, but it looks like you put too much in there and it drove off somewhere distant without you. If you look really carefully, you can just see it, a distant speck on the horizon. You chase the scooter to that distant place, but then you see it heading for a lake. Oh good, it should be stopped by the water. But wait! In the distance you see your scooter drive onto a row (りょう) boat and... row itself through the water?! No!! You can still make out the distant shape of your scooter, now on a row boat, fading away and completely out of reach.
# | 郭 | Enclosure | かく ; くるわ | Receive + Building | You just received a building, so you want to surround it with an enclosure. Imagine the building you just received. You want to protect it, so you get started on that enclosure. Imagine building your enclosure with your bare hands. The enclosure felt a  bit quiet and lonely, so you decided to get yourself a pet cock (かく). Your pet cock is the perfect addition to your new enclosure. Just look at it, pecking happily between the enclosure and that building you received.
# | 抹 | Erase | まつ | Fingers + Jet | Put your fingers in a jet if you want to erase them from existence. You aren't just chopping or burning them off. There's like, no trace of them at all. Your parents can't even remember if you were born with fingers or not. Jets are that powerful. Imagine your fingers slowly getting closer and closer to the jet's engine. It feels like it's going to suck your whole body in. And you better watch out, because if it does you'll be erased from the planet. And probably from time itself. You're almost done erasing your fingers when the jet starts sucking all of you in. You would try to grab the closest thing to you, but your fingers don't exist anymore, so you hold onto the mats (まつ) at your feet with your toes. The mats are super strong (they're made for jets, after all) and you manage to save yourself! Now you're so thankful to the mats. If they weren't there you might have erased your whole body! Thank you mats! I'll never walk on you without thanking you for your service again!
# | 佳 | Excellent, Skilled | か | Leader + Dirt | A leader gets double the dirt to build on if he's the most excellent and most skilled of all the leaders. You don't think dirt is so great? Well what if I took the dirt you own away from you? Your house is on that dirt. It's mine now. Get outta here. Imagine being so excellent at leading, that you get double the dirt that everyone else gets. This excellent leader is going to use all this dirt to store her excellent cars (か)! Excellent people have to have cars in equal or greater than excellent-ness than themselves. Imagine your own car. Is it as excellent as you?
# | 惜 | Frugal | せき ; お | Soul + Long Ago | Your soul long ago was very frugal, which is why you get to have too much in this life! Thank you soul, for being frugal so that I can have so much now. You know what being frugal is? Sexy (せき). You save money, you use less resources, that's the sexiest thing I can think of. If you want your spouse or S.O. to think you're more sexy, just be more frugal. They'll definitely appreciate it and see you in a different light.
# | 憂 | Grief | ゆう ; う, うれ | Hundred + Forehead + Heart + Winter | A hundred foreheads lower themselves to their hearts in winter in grief. There were once many of their kind, the forehead peoples, but now there are only a hundred left after this harsh winter took the rest of them. Their grief is immense. Imagine if winter was so brutal that there were only one hundred human foreheads left. You lost all of your friends and family. Feel that grief. Their grief intensifies because all of the foreheads they lost belonged to youths (ゆう). Dead youths everywhere. Now there's no one left to repopulate the world. Grief for youths is so painful. No one should have to bury their forehead child.
# | 悼 | Grieve, Mourn | とう ; いた | Soul + Toe + Early | The soul in your toe leaves early. You grieve and mourn for your now-dead toe. Look at your toe. It has no soul. It's dark and shriveled, like a mummy's toe. Grieve and watch your tears drip onto it. You decide to grieve in とうきょう. Your toe always wanted to walk in とうきょう, and now you can at least fulfill its dying wish. Walk through the streets of とうきょう grieving, with your dead toe flopping onto the pavement.
# | 癒 | Healing, Cure | ゆ ; い, いや | Sick + Death Star + Heart | The sick Death Star needs its heart cured. If it doesn't get healing soon, it will die. Maybe the Death Star wouldn't be sick if it wasn't so mean to you, yelling at you for living in a yurt, when it was a yurt on the inside the whole time. Wait! I know the cure! You realized that the only way to cure the Death Star is to turn it back into a yurt (ゆ). Then it won't be able to do any more harm, and its outside will reflect its pleasant self on the inside! Hmm, but does this type of yurt healing technology exist?! You'll have to find out to cure it!!
# | 栃 | Horse Chestnut | とち | Tree + Cliff + Ten Thousand | You see a tree growing on a cliff and it has ten thousand horse chestnuts growing on it. These trees are rare, only grow on cliffs, and they always have exactly ten thousand horse chestnuts on each one. Picture this tree, weighed down by it's own horse chestnuts, leaning over the edge of the cliff. You decide to take a bite of a horse chestnut because it looks yummy, and there are ten thousand, so it's not like anyone will notice. You crack it open and take a nice big bite to find out that it tastes like toe cheese (とち)! UHG! It's the worst thing you've ever tasted. Like hot, moldy toe cheese! Ewwww! Horse chestnuts taste like nasty toe cheese. Imagine what having one in your mouth would be like.
# | 龍 | Imperial, Dragon | りゅう, りょう, ろう ; たつ | Imperial | The imperial radical and the imperial kanji are exactly the same! Wahoo! Make sure you remember this radical means imperial and you'll remember the kanji meaning too! Who is the coolest imperial you know? Ryu (りゅう) from Street Fighter. Wait what? You mean he FIGHTS imperials? Oh, okay. Looks like Ryu is the coolest imperial FIGHTER you know! Picture Ryu kicking the butts of imperial  scum like Bison and Darth Vader.
# | 弥 | Increasing | や ; び, み | Bow + Gun + Small | Go from a bow to a small gun and you're increasing in fire power! Even though the gun is small, it's still a step up from a bow. Imagine increasing your power with a new weapon. What would it be? You keep trading in weapons to get increasingly stronger gear, when you realize that at the top of the list is... a Yankee's (や) baseball bat? Huh. I would have gone for a tank or a bazooka. But I guess if this will increase your power level, you have to go for it. Imagine walking down a line of weapons, each one increasing in power from the one before it. Bow, small gun, bigger gun, tank, Yankee's bat. Yup, that sounds right.
# | 髄 | Marrow, Bone Marrow | ずい | Bone + Have + Scooter | Your bones have a scooter that moves through the bone marrow inside them. If you think about it, bone marrow is really just a road for tiny blood scooters. If you put your ear really close to a bone with marrow still in it, you'll hear the scooters going zuwee (ずい) as they move the blood around inside there. That's how doctors can tell if there's something wrong with your bone marrow. If they can't hear the zuuwee of the scooters, you're gonna die soon. I mean, maybe, I'm not a doctor.
# | 勿 | Must Not | もち | Wing | A wing is something you must not do anything with. Wings are fragile (think bird's wings and butterfly's wings) and sometimes dangerous (like the wings of a plane) and you must not touch them, or even go near them! You MUST NOT. You. MUST. NOT. Imagine a pair of wings with a prohibition sign (a red circle with a red line) on them. And next time you see a wing of any kind, think "I MUST NOT"! Apart from staying away from wings, the other thing you must not do is eat mochi (もち). Okay, they're not fragile or dangerous, but I love mochi and I don't want you eating them. Now imagine some mochi with red prohibition circles on them. You MUST NOT eat those, do you hear me? Those mochi are mine!
# | 傍 | Nearby, Side | ぼう ; かたわ, わき, おか, はた, そば | Leader + Stand + Direction | The leader is standing funny, facing a direction nearby. He can't go far because there's obviously something wrong with his feet. He's stuck nearby, very close to your side. Picture the leader very close to your side. He's looking off into the distance, a distance he'll never get to because all he can do is stand there with his messed up feet. You decide to bring the leader to a nearby bowling (ぼう) alley. It's really close and you can stay right by his side as he throws bowling balls and gets his anger out. Picture the leader bowling nearby. You keep him close by, you never know when he'll fall over and need your help.
# | 愉 | Pleasant | ゆ ; たの | Soul + Death Star | The soul of the Death Star is actually quite pleasant. And if you think about it, it's the people who control the Death Star that are evil and kill. Picture the Death Star in your mind. As you picture it, its pleasant, smiling soul floats up and out of it. "Oh hello, dear," it says happily, "Didn't see you there!" The pleasant soul within the Death Star actually looks like a yurt (ゆ), not a big angry, metal ball. Yurts are very pleasant structures. They're round and soft and moveable, just like the Death Star's soul.
# | 赴 | Proceed, Move On | ふ ; おもむ | Run + Toe | You need to run on your toes if you want to proceed down this road. If you can't run on your toes, well then you're out of luck, and you won't be able to move on at all. I didn't make this rule, I just enforce it. Now run! Imagine trying to proceed down the road by running on your toes. No other part of your foot can touch the ground! If you find that you can't proceed, you're a fool (ふ). Everyone can run on their toes. Don't you know that? No? Then you're an even bigger fool, now get outta here! Imagine being called a fool when you can't proceed along the road because running on your toes ends up being super hard to do.
# | 昌 | Prosperous, Prosperity | しょう ; さかん | Sun | The sun is the reason why crops grow and people can get out of bed in the morning. But on planets with two suns, they can get even more done and it makes them way more prosperous than us. They work all day, then as the first sun sets, the second one rises and they get a new burst of energy. The whole planet lives in a state of prosperity because of the two suns. Picture the prosperous planet that has two suns. They get so much work done that no one is ever hungry or tired or without. The person on this planet with two suns who benefits from the prosperity the most is the Shougun (しょう). Yes, this planet still has a shougun as their leader, but everything is going so well that they didn't see a need to change. The shogun will be in charge of this prosperous world forever. No one ever thinks of revolt when everyone has everything they could ever need. Picture the Shougun looking over the prosperous world, the two suns at his back.
# | 憾 | Remorse, Regret | かん ; うら | Soul + Feeling | The only feeling a dead soul will have is remorse. Remorse for the people it left behind. Regrets for the things it did and didn't do. If you died right now and left your soul behind, do you think you'd have regrets? The soul with the most regrets is Genghis Khan (かん). Everyone knows to stay away from him in the spirit world because he's so sad. Not because of his own actions, but because of the state of his people now. Picture Genghis Khan looking down at the state of his people, the Mongols, in the modern world. See the remorse in his soul's face. They should be leaders of the modern world. Not reduced to a people struggling in the background.
# | 朴 | Simple, Crude | ぼく ; えのき, ほう, ほお | Tree + Toe | You decide to carve a tree into a giant replica of your big toe because you think it will be really simple. Once you're done though, it looks like a really crude attempt at a fat, lumpy blob. Maybe carving isn't as simple as you thought. Imagine carving a really simple, crude toe from a tree. It's your first attempt, so I guess you should have known it wouldn't be great. You're admiring your simple looking toe tree when a lumberjack runs up and asks who created it. ぼく, you say. As in "I" said it, in a manly dude, way. He doesn't seem to believe you, so you say it a few more times. ぼく ぼく ぼく! Who carved this simple toe? ぼく!
# | 脊 | Stature, Height | せき ; せ, せい | Two + Person + Moon | If you put two two pound weights on a person on the moon they'll increase in stature when they come back down. Everything is lighter on the moon so the person won't even feel the weights. Then when they come back to earth they'll have grown a whole two inches taller! Imagine how much height you'd gain if you spent time lifting weights on the moon! Getting a taller stature will also make you seem super sexy (せき) on the moon and back home on earth. If you stay on the moon long enough, you'll be the tallest person in the galaxy and who wouldn't find that sexy?! Huh? Imagine how sexy the height of a ten foot tall person would be after just coming back from weight training on the moon.
# | 該 | The Above, That Specifically | がい | Say + Slice | You want to slice what you say in half so that people focus on the above text first. The above is what you want them to see! So slice what you say! Imagine actually slicing the words you say in the air. The above section is what you want people to pay attention to, so you slice a big gap between the above and the below words. As you focus on the above words you realize a guy (がい) is trying to push the rest of the things you're saying back up with the rest of them. No! The above text is all that matters! Go away guy! That guy doesn't care if the above is all he's supposed to hear. That guy sucks.
# | 之 | This, This One | これ, の ; し | Drop + Hills | How do you make a mnemonic for the word this? You don’t. But, we can try. You climb many hills. On top of one of the hills is a little drop of water. You pick it up and say “THIS… THIS IS WHAT I WAS LOOKING FOR!” As you look at the drop of water, you note that you found the right thing. Written on it is the word “this." You collect(これ) this very carefully. You’re going to add this to your drop collection. You’re always collecting drops of water in the hills. It’s your hobby, in fact. But this one is the first one you’ve ever collected with “this” written on it. What a great addition to your drop collection.
# | 鎮 | Tranquilize | ちん ; おさえ, しず | Gold + Reality | The reality of gold is that it has the power to tranquilize anyone who gets their hands on it. Gold may seem cool to have in movies and songs, but in reality, it has the power to mess you up! Imagine being tranquilized by the sweet caress of gold coins. You can't even move. You're in a daze or something. You've been tranquilized and now drool is running down your chin (ちん). It's actually really gross. But you don't care, look at all this gold! No one will care about your chin when you're rich! If you let gold tranquilize you, you'll drool all over your own chin. Maybe the chins of other people too, who knows?
# | 尿 | Urine, Pee | にょう | Flag + Water | When you go to the pool or lake to swim, you'll see a flag stuck somewhere in the water. That flag is there so you know it's okay to pee in that area of the pool. Everyone knows urine dilutes in water, and if everyone just pees in one place, it won't be gross. So go pee over by that flag when you have to go. Don't bother getting out of the water. Imagine swimming over to the flag that's sticking out of the water and peeing there. Yeah, everyone knows what you're doing over there, but it's better than getting out and walking to the bathroom right? Just pee in the water. Just do it. Right as you start to pee, you hear the life guard start to yell, "NYOOOOOO! (にょう)" and he's pointing at you! You were just peeing by the pee flag! Why is he mad? Imagine your embarrassment when you find out that you aren't supposed to urinate in the water, not even by the pee flag, because a life guard yelled NYOOOOOO and pointed right at you while you did it.
# | 賓 | VIP, Guest | ひん | Roof + Ground + Few + Shellfish | Between the roof and the ground there are few shellfish. This is because we invited some VIP guests into our home and they ate all our shellfish. The VIPs came into our home (the place between our roof and the ground) where they consumed all our shellfish. Only the best for guests, I guess. These VIP guests are part of a Hindu (ひん) envoy. We are treating these VIP guests extra special because they represent the whole Hindu religion. They get shellfish because of course we weren't going to serve them beef!
# | 那 | What | な, だ ; いかん, なに, なんぞ | Sword + Two + Building | You're holding a sword in front of two buildings. What will you do? A. Stab the building on the left. B. Stab the building on the right. What do you choose? What? Do you think I'm gonna help you make this decision? No way, you need to dig deep and think about what you want to do. A. What is, stab the building on the left? You stab the building on the left with your sword and what comes out is... a plate of delicious nachos (な)! B. What is, stab the building on the right? You stab the building on the right with your sword and what comes out is... a plate of delicious nachos (な)! What?! You got nachos either way. You should be happy, don't ask me any other questions.
# | 匠 | Artisan | しょう ; たくみ | Cage + Axe | There is a cage with an axe in it above your house to show that you are an artisan. All of the artisans have to have this special sign somewhere near where they live to show they make things. Imagine looking down your street and seeing caged axes above all of the artisans homes and shops. You want a new chair? You want some pants mended? Go to one of those signs and you'll find the right artisan. Artisans have to be marked this way because the Shougun (しょう) says so. The Shougun doesn't want to have to put any effort into finding people to make things for him, so he created this new system. Picture the Shougun marching angrily down the street. His shoe suddenly snaps in half. With just one glance he'll be able to find the shoe artisan and make them fix his shoe for free.
# | 拍 | Beat | はく, ひょう | Fingers + White | You're tapping your fingers against a white wall when you realize the sound you're making is actually a sick beat. You keep going and start singing along. Boo boo boop. Boo do do do doop! Finger beats! Imagine yourself in a completely white room. All you have is the white walls, your fingers, and your beats. When you stop all you're left with is white noise. Yuck! Keep those beats coming! This beat is sick, but as you tap you realize you're hacking (はく) up the wall! Slowly but surely, your fingers are hacking out little bits of the wall. And the beats don't sound as good until you move to a new, clean white area. Imagine hacking the wall apart as you try to keep this beat going. The music is all you have, man! You can't lose the beat now!
# | 縛 | Bind, Restrain | ばく ; しば | Thread + Specialty + Drop | Your specialty is dropping people with thread by binding them! You can drop anyone as long as you have enough thread to restrain them. It doesn't matter how much they fight, you'll get them to drop! Imagine if your specialty was dropping people by binding them with thread. You'd be such a weird person. If you're going to be a weirdo who likes to bind people, at least make sure that they land on their backs (ばく) when they DO drop. Landing on your head or your boobs really hurts. So please at least try to make them land on their backs! Imagine how you would bind someone so that when they drop they land on their back instead of somewhere more painful. How would you do that?
# | 飽 | Bored, Sated | ほう ; あ | Eat + Wrap | You eat and then wrap yourself into a ball because you're bored. You're also sated, because you ate just the right amount, but now you have nothing to do and it's soooo booooring. Haven't you ever been so bored that you just wrapped yourself up into a boredom ball? So now you're bored and stuck at home (ほう). You aren't hungry. There's nothing on TV. And you don't want to have to leave your home to do something, even though that would probably solve your boredom problem. Ehhhhhhgggg guys I'm stuck at home and I'm soooo bored. Heeelpp!
# | 柴 | Brushwood, Firewood | しば ; さい, し | Stop + Spoon + Tree | If you could stop spooning water onto that tree we could use it for brushwood. But if you don't stop, then it will be too wet to burn at all! Stop already! We need to use that brushwood to make a fire! So stop spooning water on it! You finally set the brushwood on fire and suddenly a Shiba (しば) Inu jumps out of the flames. So that's why they named this wood after them or... or vice versa? Shiba inu's come from setting brushwood on fire! That must have been how they got their name!
# | 蝶 | Butterfly | ちょう | Insect + World + Tree | The insect that is amongst all the world's trees is the butterfly. They are always hanging around trees, those butterflies. Imagine any tree in the world with different kinds of butterflies fluttering around. Then go to another tree in the world that looks completely different. Once again, butterflies! They really are fluttering around every tree in the world. As you look at a butterfly, fluttering around a tree, a hand reaches out from the tree and grabs it, then starts plucking the wings off. An evil laugh comes from inside the tree, and you know it's Mrs. Chou (ちょう). She grabs another butterfly and starts pulling off wings again, though this time you can see her evil face looking at you while she does it. "I hate butterflies," she says. "They are always dying in my tea."
# | 弦 | Chord, Bowstring | げん ; つる | Bow + Mysterious | The mysterious sound that comes from a bowstring when you pluck it is called a chord. It's still a bowstring though. You need strings to make chords, after all. Every time you touch a bowstring, listen to the chords it plays. The chord you're hearing right now is being played by Genji (げん). He's sitting under your window plucking bowstrings and singing. GASP! Genji is finally singing chords of love to you! Your dreams have come true and the most handsome, romantic man ever is finally yours!
# | 凛 | Cold | りん ; きびし | Ice + Lid + Times + Jackhammer | You're trying to open the lid of a manhole that's covered in ice by jackhammering it a bunch of times but it's not working because it's just too cold. It's so cold that your jackhammer is starting to ice up too. But you need to get this lid open so you try time after time after time! Imagine if it was sooo cold that no matter how many times you tried to jackhammer the ice of the lid for this manhole, it wouldn't crack open. Each time the jackhammer hits the freezing cold ice it makes a high pitched ringing (りん) sound. It's actually really annoying to listen to but you really need to crack this ice open so you have to keep listening to it. If it wasn't so darn cold you wouldn't have to hear this horrible high pitched ringing sound because there wouldn't even be any ice to jackhammer through!
# | 庸 | Commonplace | よう | Canopy + Brush + Task | Under this canopy you have a brush and a task to complete with it. This is totally  commonplace . This is a totally commonplace thing for almost every class or job you'll ever have. They sit you down under the canopy, put a brush in your hand, and say, "Here, complete this task. I'll be over there." This is so commonplace and familiar to you that you finish your task early and eat some yogurt (よう) while you wait for the guy to come back. As you eat the yogurt you think about how commonplace yogurt is too. It's just a normal, plain, boring old food, found in practically everyone's fridge.
# | 錯 | Confused, Mixed | さく, しゃく | Gold + Long Ago | This was pure gold long ago, but now it's not. Someone got confused and mixed it with something else. You could swear this thing was gold a long time ago. Now it's a mix of different things. It's mixed (and not pure anymore) because the confused person put it in that sack (さく) filled with various other things. Since it was in that sack for so long, it just ended up getting mixed with the other stuff in that sack. It was gold a long time ago, but now it's mixed with everything else.
# | 轄 | Control | かつ ; くさび | Car + Roof + Life + Mouth | When you drive a car, everyone under your roof is putting their life in your hands, even if they don't say it with their mouth—it's still under your control. It's really important to remember how many things are under your control when you operate a vehicle. It isn't just the people in your car either, it's everyone and everything in your way too. You have to maintain control of your car or you'll hit a bunch of cats (かつ). The roads are full of cats at all times. And if you lose control of your car for just a second, you'll hit at least two or three cats. If you don't want to think about hitting adorable cats with your car, you better maintain control. You're responsible!
# | 悦 | Delight, Joy | えつ ; よろこ | Soul + Guard | If you can guard your soul from bad things you'll always feel delight and joy. It's hard to guard your soul from everything though, so take all the joy you can, while you can. Imagine guarding yourself from all the bad things in the world. No more politics, religion, internet trolls debating the two, it's all guarded from your precious soul. Ahhh, it's so joyous to be unburdened. The delight you feel is so great that it becomes permanently etched (えつ) in your soul and even your face. Picture joy etched on your own face. No one can get you down.
# | 窮 | Destitute | きゅう, きょう ; きわ | Hole + Body + Bow | Put a hole in someone's body with a bow and they'll become destitute. You put a hole in them. They can't work. They can't take care of their house or their kids. They've lost it all. Picture a destitute person wandering in the streets with a hole in their body. You see this destitute person and decide to give them a cucumber (きゅう). They don't even remember that they're supposed to eat those, so they shove it in the hole you made with your bow. Picture a destitute person, sitting on the street, holding a cucumber. Putting the cucumber in their hole. Crying.
# | 嘉 | Esteem, Praise | か ; よい, よみ | Drum + Power + Mouth | If when you speak it sounds like the power of a drum is coming out of your mouth, then people will hold you in high esteem. Anyone who has a loud, booming, powerful voice will be held in high esteem in this day and age. Look at all those awesome musicians who have booming voices! Imagine hearing someone speak and it's so powerful and loud that it sounds like they have a drum booming out of their mouth. You'll love them! You'll hold them in the highest esteem! You hold them in such high esteem that you give them your car (か). I ... I said you give them your car! Give them your car. Hey, hey! If you hold someone in high esteem you give me your- give them your car. Gimme!
# | 弊 | Evil | へい | Penguin + Twenty | Twenty penguins together are always evil. Penguins are seen in groups a lot, sure, but did you know that any time there are exactly twenty penguins in a group they're plotting evil things? Evil things like global warming. And how to eat all the fish in the world so humans can't have any. Imagine walking around in the arctic when you stumble upon an evil group of penguins. They'd be cute if they weren't holding papers with "Kill All Humans" on them and tiny guns in their penguin hands. The evil penguins can't let you tell the other human's what you've seen, so they murder you and hide your body in a haystack (へい). Your family will never know what happened to you. The penguins will get away with their evil plans. Only someone or, in this case, something truly evil would kill someone and hide their remains under some hay. That's really disrespectful and, well, evil.
# | 遥 | Far Off, Far Away | はる ; よう | Scooter + Satellite | There is a scooter that is a satellite, but it is far off and far away. Look up into the sky. That little moving light is the scooter satellite. It's just scooting along, far away from here. The scooter satellite is far off, but you can still hear it's horn go "har (はる) har har." The scooter satellite's only purpose is to make a "har har har" sound that is audible from far away. It's quite obnoxious.
# | 洪 | Flood | こう | Tsunami + Together | A tsunami together with another tsunami is going to cause a massive flood. More than one tsunami will definitely result in a flood. Imagine the floody aftermath of more than one tsunami, arriving together. After the terrible flood, Emperor こういち comes to survey the destruction and offer hope to his people. But, instead he just tells the people that this flood happened because they didn't believe in the Crabigator's words, and because they weren't doing their kanji reviews. "This flood was caused by you! It is because you did not believe in the holy Crabigator! It is because you didn't do your kanji reviews. It's because you used ignore scripts and reordering scripts and you sinned, sinned, sinned!" こういち says to the scared, cold, now homeless people.
# | 紳 | Gentleman | しん | Thread + Humble | Your threads are humble and that makes you a perfect gentleman. You don't have to have fancy clothes to be a gentleman, just humble ones that don't stand out and show off too much. That shows how polite you are. Picture yourself as the perfect gentleman. You may not have a fancy top hat and tie, but you're humble about what you wear and you're kind to everyone. Unfortunately, as a gentleman who dresses humbly, you're always getting kicked in the shins (しん) by rude kids (and occasionally rude adults). But you're a gentleman, so you don't kick their shins back, you smile and hold in the pain. No matter how bad your shins hurt, you never fight back!
# | 呉 | Give | ご ; くれ, く | Catapult | You've learned that you can catapult things to give them to other people! Don't catapult rocks at buildings and walls, catapult gifts to the people you love. If you want to give someone something, use a catapult! Give food to your new friend Godzilla (ご) with the catapult! You and Godzilla understand each other now. He's just hungry. You give Godzilla old used cars, chunks of old buildings, and sometimes hamburgers. Godzilla is so happy you're giving him food, he doesn't destroy anymore!
# | 穀 | Grain | こく | Samurai + Forehead + Grain + Weapon | A samurai hits the foreheads of grains with his weapon so the grains will pop off and into his mouth. He doesn't want to kill the plants, so he's just skimming the grain's foreheads so they'll fall off and he can eat them. Picture the samurai taking out his weapon and spinning in a lightning fast circle. The forehead grains pop off and come raining into his open mouth. Phew, all of this grain is making the samurai thirsty, so he reaches in his bag and pulls out an ice cold, refreshing Coke (こく). These grains aren't even cooked, they're just hard and raw, so the Coke really helps wash them down.
# | 摂 | In Addition | せつ, しょう ; おさ, かね, と | Fingers + Ear + Explosion | Put your fingers in your ears when there's an explosion in addition to all the other things you were told to do. You have to crouch under a desk, you have to stay away from windows, you have to close your eyes. But in addition to that, you need to protect your ears! Pretend you're in a class in the mid-20th century, watching a video on bomb explosion safety. In addition to putting your fingers in your ears, you have to do a bunch of other stuff. You can't just stop after the first step! In addition to all the steps you have to take to protect yourself, you can't forget that ears come in sets (せつ). You can't just stick one finger in one ear and have that be the end. You have a set of ears to worry about! In addition to ears, you have a lot of sets on your body to worry about. Sets of eyes, nostrils, legs, you get the picture.
# | 寂 | Lonely | じゃく, せき ; さび, さみ | Roof + Above + Small + Stool | On the roof above, is a small stool. Anyone who sits in that stool will be lonely. Imagine sitting on this small stool, waaaaay up there above the roof. You can't see anyone and you can't talk to anyone. You feel this awful emptiness inside. That's what it's like to be lonely. You're so lonely, you make up an imaginary friend: Jack (じゃく). Jack doesn't get rid of the lonely feeling because he isn't real, but he is a distraction at least. You're so busy talking to Jack, you don't hear the voices from below, "Aren't you lonely up there, miss? Do you want us to get a jack to get you down? Hello? I don't think she can hear us..."
# | 宰 | Manager | さい | Roof + Spicy | Your roof is spicy because you're the manager. You're always testing new recipes in your house to share with everyone who works under you, but that makes all the spice stick to your roof (since it doesn't have good ventilation like a restaurant or a lab would). Picture yourself as the manager of a restaurant or a science lab. You have to test all of your managerial methods at home before you can bring them to work. And if you were to lick that roof of yours... it would be spicy from all of your experiments. You've finally done it. You're now the manager of a bunch of spicy new cyborgs (さい). You've been toiling away for over a year, but you've finally replaced the cyborg you lost, and now you can manage them properly without anyone getting in the way. Unfortunately, you couldn't figure out how to make non-spicy cyborgs, but that's okay because you're going to be the best cyborg manager ever! No one will ever take them away from you again.
# | 陵 | Mausoleum, Tomb | りょう ; みささぎ | Building + Frostbite | The only building you'll get frostbite in is a mausoleum. Mausoleums and tombs weren't made for living people, so they aren't insulated from the cold. No one cares if a dead body gets frostbite. Unfortunately, you're realizing this because you thought a mausoleum would be a good hiding place from the winter cold. Spoilers, it's not. You need to escape this mausoleum now but the only way out is on a row (りょう) boat over a creepy frozen pond. You've heard of these mausoleum row boats before, and you're pretty sure they're cursed. Imagine taking your frostbitten fingers and trying to get away from the mausoleum in this row boat. It looks like it was made of bones and it is not very seaworthy. But you row with all your might, because you don't want to end up a permanent fixture in this tomb!
# | 凡 | Mediocre | ぼん, はん ; おうよ, およ, すべ | Table + Drop | You go to buy a table but it looks like it has water damage from drops of water hitting it. This makes it a pretty mediocre table. The water drops haven't really damaged it that much, it still stands and you can use it, but it's kinda ugly, so it's just mediocre. You didn't expect to see water drop damage on this table so now your mood is mediocre too. You weren't expecting to see such a mediocre table so you go up to the guy who's selling it and say, "Hey, I have a bone (ぼん) to pick with you!" But he doesn't think there is a bone to pick at all, he doesn't think the table is mediocre like you do. Imagine having a bone to pick with someone because they're trying to sell you something mediocre and they just won't listen. Now you have a bone to pick with the person who recommended this guy to you!
# | 尉 | Military Officer, Military Rank | い, じょう | Flag + Jackhammer + Measurement | Who loves their flag, using jackhammers, and precise measurements? Your military officer! He's always saluting the flag, jackhammering near all the new recruits to test them, and checking the measurement between the floor and their pants. Who else could it be? Picture a military officer doing all those things. That military officer's favorite bird is an eagle (い)! That should be obvious because the eagle is the bird of America! And that's the country he fights for! Picture the military officer saluting as an eagle flies overhead. Majestic.
# | 靖 | Peaceful | やす ; せい | Stand + Blue | Stand staring up at the blue sky and you'll feel more peaceful than you ever have. Blue is a color that promotes peaceful thoughts and feelings. That's why all the social media sites are blue. To stop you from being a jerk. Imagine how peaceful staring at the blue ocean, the blue sky, or the blue tumblr makes you. Now if someone asks you if the color blue makes you peaceful you should say "YAASS (やす)!" And you'll have us to thank for that! All those peaceful blue radicals. They're the easiest thing on the site, and if someone asks you if radicals make you feel peaceful say "YAASS" again! YAASS! Peaceful blue radicals standing in a row. What's that? YAASS you do want more radicals added to the site. Well okay then, if it will keep you at peace, sure!
# | 恭 | Respect | うやうや ; きょう | Together + Small + Drop | When small drops of water work together they gain respect for one another. If you end up working with someone long enough, and they end up being really great, you'll respect them too! Imagine being a small drop of water and seeing other drops of water come to help you by working together. You'd really respect them, right? If you respect someone enough you'll even take up their hobbies. The person you respect most loves the Yankees. You don't really feel the same, but you respect that about them so you chant, "Ooh Yankees, Ooh Yankees!" (うやうや) with them during each game. Imagine respecting someone so much that you'll cheer ooh yankees over and over even though they're kind of a crappy team.
# | 縫 | Sew | ほう ; ぬ | Thread + Scooter + Signpost | You take some thread, put your scooter up to a signpost, and sew them together. You don't have a lock, so sewing your scooter up to the signpost to keep it safe is all you can think of. Imagine slowly sewing your scooter to the signpost, passing the thread back and forth through the signpost's metal holes and your scooter's handles. You usually only sew at home (ほう), so this is a big exception for you. You're usually worried that if you sew in public people will judge your stitches, so this is a big step for you! Hopefully, if your scooter is still here later you'll be able to start sewing outside of your home more often from now on!
# | 舶 | Ship | はく | Boat + White | A boat that's white isn't just a boat, it's a ship. Boats don't need to be a bright white color. But, ships do! They're dangerous and big, so they paint them nice and white. A white-painted ship is a kind of hack (はく). It makes the ship more visible without costing much. You can also imagine hacking the ship's computer. "Look at me, look at me. You are the hacker now."
# | 搾 | Squeeze | さく ; しぼ | Fingers + Hole + Key | If you want to fit your fingers into a key hole, you have to squeeze them in. Fingers aren't exactly supposed to fit in key holes... they're for keys, after all. But you want to squeeze your finger on in there anyway to unlock the door. Imagine what it would be like to squeeze your fingers into a keyhole. Maybe try squeezing one finger really tight first. Did that hurt? Well it's going to be a lot worse in that key hole. Once you've squeezed your finger in the key hole to unlock this door you squeeze all the money and jewels and treasures you can fit into your sack (さく). Your stealing sack. You have the ability to squeeze your fingers into locks to open them, so of course you're stealing. And you squeeze those stolen goodies into your sack so you can take them with you.
# | 猶 | Still, Yet | ゆう, ゆ ; なお | Animal + Horns + Alcohol | An animal with horns is drinking our alcohol? Still? You keep checking outside to see if they have stopped, but they are still drinking. They haven't stopped yet. The animal with horns that is still drinking your alcohol is no animal at all. It is actually one of the local youths (ゆう) dressed up like a horned animal so they can drink as long as they want and you'll be too scared to shoo them away. You keep checking, but that youth is still drinking. Of course, you don't know they are a youth, so it's quite impressive an animal can drink this much.
# | 窒 | Suffocate | ちつ | Hole + Mole | Take a mole out of its hole and it will suffocate. They need to be in tight quarters, unlike us humans. So when you take one out of its nice, safe hole, it thinks it can't breathe and suffocates. Picture a poor little mole suffocating in your hand after you took it out of its hole. Put it back right away! Don't kill that little mole! As the mole suffocates it cheats (ちつ) and shoves its head into your closed hand. You realize what it's doing and squeeze your hand tighter so it's more like a hole. You can feel the mole breathing again now. Unfortunately, you can't use cheats on life, and the mole suddenly stiffens and suffocates to death anyway. You should feel bad about what you've done.
# | 碑 | Tombstone | ひ ; いしぶみ | Stone + Drop + Rice Paddy + Cross | A stone drops from the sky into a rice paddy and then a cross drops on top of it. They've combined to form a tombstone! Wait, does that mean a body fell from the sky first and you just didn't see it? Imagine seeing a stone and a cross drop from the sky onto each other to form a tombstone right in front of your eyes! Now you're curious about what's under there but when you try to touch the tombstone it's radiating with intense heat (ひ)! It must have come from outer space and this heat is from when it entered our atmosphere! Can you feel the heat radiating off this space tombstone? Maybe there's a space skeleton sizzling under there too...
# | 智 | Wisdom | ち ; とも | Arrow + Mouth + Sun | You shoot an arrow at the mouth of the sun so that it will grant you a gift of wisdom. You heard about a Greek hero doing this and the god in the sun gave him the wisdom to see everything. You're hoping it will work for you too. Imagine shooting an arrow at the mouth of the sun and then waiting for the wisdom of the world to hit you. Did it work? Will you know when it works? Probably... You're standing around waiting for the wisdom to hit you when something else does. In the head. Ouch! You look down and it's a wheel of cheese (ち)! At first you're angry, until you realize that this must be a sign. Cheese IS wisdom. And the key to wisdom is eating a lot of cheese! Picture yourself thanking the sun for teaching you that all wisdom comes from cheese. Now take a big bite!
# | 盲 | Blind | もう ; めくら | Death + Eye | The death of your eyes means that you've gone blind. Imagine what it would be like to have one of your eyes die. You'll be blind in that eye forever! When you're blind you probably shouldn't drive anymore because if you do you'll mow (もう) everyone over. Actually, don't mow your lawn either. Blind people probably shouldn't be driving anything. Imagine a blind person mowing over everyone in their car as they drive on the sidewalk. Eeek. At least they don't have to see this mess.
# | 醸 | Brew | じょう ; かも | Alcohol + Nurse | An alcohol nurse is someone who nurses alcohol. In other words, they brew it. Imagine a nurse brewing alcohol with the same attention they would nurse a human patient. But this brew is much more important than any person's health. A brew of alcohol is what Joe (じょう) loves most after a long day of working the fields. Imagine what it must be like for Joe, out working on the fields all day long, working up a sweat. I’d say he’s earned a cold alcoholic brew after such a day. Cut the man some slack.
# | 凹 | Concave, Hollow | おう ; くぼ, へこ, ぼこ | Concave | The concave radical and the concave kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! If you call someone concave the 王 (おう) will find out and he'll have his guards turn you concave. Watch your mouth around the 王. Have you ever seen a concave person? Yeah that's because they didn't live through it. 王s aren't very nice, you know.
# | 弔 | Condolence | ちょう ; とぶら, とむら | Bow + Stick | You give a bow and a stick to your friend's family. This is because your friend died, and he loved bows and sticks. You give this to his family, to give our condolences. Imagine looking at the bow and stick as you slide them over to your deceased friend's family. This won't do enough, but it is a little condolence at least. More than a condolence, you want to avenge your friend's death. He was killed by Mrs. Chou (ちょう), and she broke his stick and bow, which is why you got the family a new set. Imagine her saying, "My condolences," as Mrs. Chou does him in.
# | 凸 | Convex, Uneven | とつ ; でこ | Convex | The convex radical and the convex kanji are the same, so hopefully you now just know them both. Study your radicals and you'll read good. Is this convex? It's totes (とつ) convex! Tote bags are totes not convex though. Don't mix them up.
# | 烏 | Crow | からす ; う, お | Bird | An altered bird is a crow! They look like birds but they're bigger and darker and smarter! See that bird? Wait, that's not just a bird, it's a crow! If you can't tell just from looking at it that it's a crow and not a bird, walk up to it and caress (からす) it with your hand! If it caresses you back, it's a crow! If it freaks out and flies away or pecks your face, it's a normal bird. Crows are really smart and like affection. That's what makes them so cool! How many crows have you caressed today?
# | 敢 | Daring | かん ; あ | Elf + Winter | An elf who ventures outside in winter has a lot of daring. Elf ears are very, very delicate, and the winter cold can really mess them up. So if you see an elf adventuring in winter, know that that particular elf is a really daring dude. Imagine how much daring it would take to go outside in winter knowing you could be freezing your precious elf ears off. The amount of daring you'd need is about equal to the amount Genghis Khan (かん) had. And he was really daring! Do you think you have the same amount of daring as an elf going out in winter and Genghis Khan? Tell the truth.
# | 堕 | Degenerate | だ ; お, くず | Building + Have + Dirt | Even if you have a building, it will eventually turn back into dirt. Everything will degenerate eventually. A brick falls off here, a door comes loose there. Nothing can last forever. Imagine a time lapse video of a building degenerating. As you watch the building degenerate, you can't help but think of your dad (だ). You had to watch him waste away the same way of a degenerative disease. Why do people have to die, dad? This may not be a happy thing to think about, but it will help you remember this kanji better. Imagine your dad fighting a degenerative disease. Imagine helping him fight through this. Everything will be okay eventually. I promise.
# | 鼓 | Drum, Beat | こ ; つづみ | Drum + Branch | You take a drum and a branch and... well, what else would you do? You would drum or beat them together. A branch is just like a drumstick, so of course you're going to drum them together. Who loves to drum things together and make a huge racket? 子s (こ), of course. Kids can't get enough of it. Anything that makes a loud drumming noise or anything they can beat together is fun for them.
# | 衡 | Equilibrium | こう | Go + Prison + Rice Paddy + Big | You go to a big rice paddy and establish a prison right in the middle of it to restore the equilibrium of the area. There was a lot of crime right here in this rice paddy, so you just built a big prison right there to lower the crime rate so this region can experience equilibrium once again. To restore equilibrium in these parts, you throw all the 耕ing こういち clones into the prison. The cloned こういちs were causing all the crime in these parts (or so Emperor こういち said), so by throwing them in a prison built right there just for them, this area could once again achieve equilibrium.
# | 伐 | Fell, Attack | ばつ ; う, き, そむ | Leader + Drunkard | If the leader of your gang is a drunkard he'll try to have you fell trees thinking they're rival gang members. You all know they aren't but you can't argue with your leader, especially if he's drunk. Go ahead and attack the trees anyway. Imagine felling trees with a bunch of other guys, yelling things like, "This is what you get for stepping on my turf!" It's a little silly. As you attack the innocent trees with your chains and sticks, a bunch of bats (ばつ) come flying out and attack YOU! You have your own kind of bats so now you're all trying to fell the bats with YOUR bats! Bats attacking bats. Who will win on this season of Survivor?
# | 酵 | Fermentation, Ferment | こう | Alcohol + Teacher | Alcohol is a good teacher on the process of fermentation. Because alcohol is so good and addicting, people will work extra hard to ferment it properly. This makes it a good teacher to learn about fermentation. People are motivated to figure it out! Using fermentation, you are indeed making some alcohol. It will be drunk at a party put on by Emperor こういち. You are fermenting thousands of bottles of alcohol for Emperor こういち's big party.
# | 閲 | Inspection | えつ ; けみ | Gate + Guard | Put a guard at your gate to get a good inspection of your neighborhood going. The guard will stand there all day inspecting everything and then report it all back to you. You won't have to do any of the inspection yourself! Imagine the guard doing his inspection in front of the gate all day long. He should have a nice report for you once he's done. His inspection is complete, but it looks like he's used an etch (えつ) a sketch to record all the results. That's not really helpful. If you shake it all the inspection results will disappear! If you hire a guard to stand at your gate and conduct an inspection of your neighborhood, make sure you tell him not to use an etch a sketch!
# | 遮 | Intercept | しゃ ; さえぎ | Scooter + Yurt + Boil | You're riding your scooter toward your yurt as fast as you can because someone is trying to get in there to boil your water and you want to intercept them. If you manage to intercept them before they can go in there to boil things, you'll be able to pick up all the clothes and comic books you left on the floor. You really don't want anyone to see those. You manage to intercept the shaman (しゃ) who was just about to open the door to your yurt, and instead you crash right into him. Phew, you intercepted the shaman in time (though she doesn't look very happy about being scooted into) and now you can clean up your yurt before they go in.
# | 腸 | Intestines | ちょう ; はらわた | Moon + Easy | The moon is easy tonight, so you decide to cut it open. But, the moon wasn't the moon, it was your big, pale, round tummy. You just cut it open, and now you can see your intestines. Imagine the moon, then imagine it cross-fading into your big, round tummy. Then, cut it open because you think the moon is easy to cut. And finally, see your intestines as clearly as you can. All over the world, people are cutting their bellies open, because they think its an easy moon (versus a normal moon, or hard moon, presumably). This is because they have fallen victim to a spell by Mrs. Chou (ちょう). This scene was in all the omen radicals you've been seeing about her. If only you could have stopped her, then none of this would have happened, right? Perhaps it was all destiny, you think, as your intestines fall from your stomach and Mrs. Chou cackles over your weakening body.
# | 乙 | Latter, B | おつ, いつ ; おと, きのと | Nose | Your nose isn't the first thing people see about your face, it's the latter. They see your eyes THEN your nose, then your mouth, in order going down. Just label them A B and C and you'll never forget! Imagine saying A B C as you look down someones face at their eyes, nose and mouth. Their nose is B! If you don't have any cereal you have to eat your B breakfast option. Oats (おつ). You don't hate oats, but they're definitely not your first choice. Imagine running out of cereal so you have to eat your latter option of breakfast oats. They aren't awful but they aren't your A breakfast choice, that's for sure.
# | 楓 | Maple | かえで ; ふう | Tree + Wind | A tree that does well in the wind is a maple tree. Maple trees don't have fruit so the wind can't knock anything off of it. That's why they thrive well in windy places! Picture a bunch of maple trees being blown by the wind. They don't seem upset, they actually seem really happy. When the wind goes through the maple tree you know it's kite day (かえで)! Imagine your kite in the maple tree.
# | 膜 | Membrane | まく | Moon + Greenhouse | If you trap the moon in a greenhouse it will grow a creepy membrane around itself. The moon isn't used to the heat it would be exposed to in a greenhouse so that membrane is there to protect it. It's really gross looking though. Imagine seeing the moon with a membrane sitting stuffed in a greenhouse. It looks like something out of the Alien movies and you're starting to think putting it in there wasn't a good idea. You decide to open the greenhouse to check this moon membrane out but when you open the door the smell of big macs (まく) hits you in the face. Eww. Why does this membrane smell like a big mac... or does that mean big macs smell like a festering moon? Can you imagine if the moon had a membrane and it smelled like a big mac? How does that even happen? You should probably go ask that food chain what they use for their ingredients.
# | 紺 | Navy Blue, Dark Blue | こん | Thread + Sweet | If you want to turn your thread into a sweet color you just HAVE to go with navy blue or dark blue. That's the sweetest color in existence, everyone knows that. After all, blue raspberry flavor is dark blue and it's super sweet. Turn your thread a sweet navy color and people will be reminded of yummy blue raspberry. MmMmm. Now that your threads are navy colored you need to be careful that condors (こん) don't try to steal it for their nests. Condors love dark blue things and thread is perfect for a condor nest. Imagine a condor stealing your sweet navy thread right after you dyed it, flying off. Lame!
# | 蒼 | Pale, Blue | そう ; あお | Flowers + Warehouse | Flowers grown in a warehouse will be very pale. They never see the sun, so they don't grow to have bright colors. Imagine walking into a warehouse and seeing hundreds of pale flowers growing in it. It's subtle, but beautiful. When you grow pale flowers like this, they don't grow a soul (そう). Soul adds color to plants and flowers. That's probably why ghosts and dead bodies are pale too. Picture a bunch of pale, soulless flowers. You pick one up and it falls apart in your hands.
# | 哉 | Question Mark, ? | や, かな ; さい | Dirt + Mouth + Drunkard | A drunkard has dirt in his mouth as he tries to talk to you. You walk over and he spits a question mark into your hand. It's covered in dirt and spit. Um... does this mean he's confused? He probably doesn't even know where he is. But how did he make this question mark and why was it in his mouth? Imagine having a drunkard spit a dirty question mark into your hand. You want to say, "Yes, I'm ??? too." The drunkard takes the question mark back and presses it to his head. He's wearing a Yankee's (や) cap. Oh come on. "Do you just want to know the Yankee's score in the game?" The drunkard nods. Picture yourself throwing the question mark at the drunkard who only cares about the Yankees. What a waste of time.
# | 峡 | Ravine | きょう, こう ; はざま | Mountain + Horns + Husband | To the mountains you took your horned husband for you two to get married. (Society wouldn't accept a horned husband!) To hide even more from the prying eyes of society, you take your horned husband into a ravine. Imagine walking up the mountain in your wedding clothes so you can get married without anyone trying to stop you. Then, because you're still worried, you go into a ravine where you are read your marriage vows. The ravine is still in きょうと though, because if you went outside the city your marriage wouldn't be legal. So you found a secluded, local ravine. This ravine runs right through the middle of きょうと, though most people don't notice it. That makes it the best place for a secret wedding to a horned freak-husband.
# | 賊 | Robber | ぞく | Shellfish + Drunkard + Cross | When a shellfish becomes a drunkard and sees a cross, they'll become a robber. Because they'll steal the cross! Some people make really bad choices when they're drunk, and in this case, when a shellfish gets drunk and sees something it wants it'll just rob people for it. Once the shellfish has a taste for being a robber, he'll join a Bosozoku (ぞく) bike gang so he can keep stealing more and more crosses. He'll drink more, steal more, and get to ride cool motorcycles. Picture a robber shellfish in a Bosozoku bike gang. Look at him the wrong way and he and his gang will steal all your stuff next time!
# | 旋 | Rotation, Revolution | せん | Direction + Gun + Coat Rack | Move your coat rack in one direction by shooting it with a gun. Then you can keep shooting it to get a good rotation going. If you think there is a better way to make your coat rack make revolutions, you're probably wrong. Imagine getting your coat rack to make rotations in a circle just by shooting it with a gun! As you watch your coat rack's rotations a centaur (せん) barges in and takes the gun from you, stops the rotating coat rack and leaves. How rude! I guess centaurs don't like when things rotate. Picture that centaurs angry face. Convince yourself it was the rotation it didn't like.
# | 俸 | Salary | ほう | Leader + Spring + Dry | The leader says spring is looking dry, so you'll need your salary in advance. The leader shows you the number, it's all of your salary for spring. "This way, if things dry up worse, you'll be okay for a while," he says. This is awfully nice, but very suspicious at the same time. Your salary is sent straight to your home (ほう) instead of the bank. Okay, something is definitely fishy here. You're sitting at home, and there is a knock at the door. A man in a suit, hat, and dark sunglasses hands you a briefcase full of money. "Here's your spring salary. Enjoy the dry weather." "T-thanks?" Welp, have fun at home with your stacks of early salary cash.
# | 喝 | Scold | かつ | Mouth + Sun + Prison + Spoon | If you put your spoon in the sun while you're in prison, a mouth will appear to scold you. You can never see who the mouth belongs to, but considering you're in prison it's probably a guard. Either way, that person doesn't like what you're doing and they keep scolding you when you put your spoon out into the sun. Imagine trying to reflect some precious sunlight into your prison room with a spoon. Now imagine a mouth appearing in the way of the sunlight and it scolds you. One day you finally get fed up. You need to know who the mouth of the person who's scolding you is. You stick your spoon out into the sun and the mouth appears, scolding you right on time. You reach out and grab them. But in your hand is a pile of cats (かつ). WHAT KIND OF WORLD IS THIS THAT YOU'RE IN A PRISON WHERE CATS SCOLD YOU?!
# | 羅 | Spread Out, Arrange | ら ; うすもの | Net + Thread + Turkey | You have a net of thread for catching a turkey. But, it must be spread out and you must arrange it first. The reason you'd use a net made of thread is because it's hard to see. But, it's only that way when you spread out the net. It's important to spread out and arrange your net otherwise the turkey will see it. You spread out your net and arrange it just so. You expect it to catch a turkey, but instead you catch the ancient Egyptian god Ra (ら). "Let me out of this net!" says Ra. "You arranged and spread it out just right so I couldn't see it!"
# | 萌 | Sprout | ほう ; きざ, めばえ, も | Flowers + Bright | You have to put flowers in a bright place if you want them to sprout. If they're left in the shade they'll just rot. Picture your flowers sprouting out of the ground in the bright spring sun. You want to grow these sprouts in your home (ほう), not outside. So you need to find the windows in your house that are the brightest. Take a walk around your home right now. Can you find the best place to sprout flowers? Remember, it has to be nice and bright! Not dark and damp. Don't put them in your closet.
# | 槽 | Tank, Vat | そう ; ふね | Tree + Ground + Music + Sun | A tree melts into the ground after listening to loud music in the hot sun, so you have to find a nice big tank to scoop the melted tree into. The music made the tree vibrate at juuust the right frequency that it, combined with the hot sun, made the tree turn into a puddle. You can't just leave it being all blobby on the ground, so you find a tank for it. Imagine scooping a melted tree into a tank. It's a very strange sensation. You're staring at the big tank when an eerie sound comes out, "Oooh I am the soul (そう) of the tree! You've trapped me in this tank and now I'm going to haunt it!" You don't want to be haunted by a tank with a soul stuck in it. "Um, okay?" you reply to the soul, and walk away from the tank. "W-wait! Tanks can't move? Come back, let me haunt you with my tree soul!" It's a good thing there weren't wheels on that tank!
# | 坪 | Two Mat Area, Tsubo | つぼ ; へい | Dirt + Peace | The amount of dirt you need to get some peace is a two mat area. Two tatami mats, that is. Also called a tsubo, this is a pretty common measurement in Japan, so you should get really familiar with the amount of space that two tatami mats take up together. Picture how big a two mat area is. Lie down and feel the peace this much space brings to you. A two mat area also happens to be big enough to hold two bodies (つぼ). That's enough space to bring peace to two living, or dead, bodies! Try to picture a two mat area with two bodies lying in it. Whether they're alive or dead is up to you.
# | 遍 | Universal | へん ; あまね | Scooter + Library | Riding a scooter to the library is a universal experience. People young and old have all, at some point, taken a scooter to the library, picked up a book, used the internet, sat in the comfy chairs, then left via that same scooter. Scooters and libraries are universally loved by all! Riding a scooter to the library is so universal, even hens (へん) do it. The next time you scoot to the library look around. There are little hen scooters and hens there with their chicks. They're reading them books about grains and how to hatch eggs. It's a universally adorable thing to see.
# | 胎 | Womb, Uterus | たい | Moon + Machine | The machine in your body that is powered by the moon is your womb, also called your uterus! Haven't you ever wondered why periods happen with the revolutions of the moon? That's because it powers your uterus and tells it what to do! The next time you're cursing your uterus for making you bleed, curse the moon instead! It's the moon's fault you're in pain. It kind of sucks, but there is no way to sever this uterus - moon tie (たい). But if you find a way please tell me, I can't take this anymore. Picture an invisible tie tieing your uterus to the moon. Damn you moon, stop pulling, it hurts!
# | 陪 | Accompany | ばい | Building + Clown | The building clown is the only clown allowed to accompany you. You hate all clowns, and so does the rest of your town. But this clown is really good at building buildings, and he's allowed to leave his part of town and accompany you while you fix buildings together. I know it's been a long time, but try not to mix this one up with 	部, if you can. Remember, the clown building is in another part of town and the clowns aren't supposed to leave. But the building clown is okay to accompany you through the rest of the city. He can only accompany you for so long though and soon it's time to say bye (ばい) again. Wave bye to the clown, he'll accompany you on your building job tomorrow, but right now he has to go home and be with the rest of his clown people. He can't accompany you after dark.
# | 扶 | Aid | ふ ; たす | Fingers + Husband | Put your fingers on your husband to aid him. There's something about a spouse's touch that just makes you feel better. Have you ever had someone rub your back while you were hurt or sick or sad? It's nice, right? Imagine rubbing your husband's back with your fingers to aid him. You want him to feel better. You want him to get that comforting feeling that this kind of touching gives. Unfortunately, your husband wouldn't need your aid if he wasn't such a fool (ふ). He walks into doors, he falls down the stairs, he touches the plate when the waiter says it's hot. And every single time your fool husband hurts himself, you aid him. That's true love, my friend.
# | 迭 | Alternate | てつ | Scooter + Fault | When your scooter has a fault, you need to get an alternate. Hopefully your insurance will cover it too. You have a scooter that you drive every single day, but if you notice a fault, you need to send it in to get it fixed. That's when you break out your alternate scooter. The alternate scooter is made entirely of 鉄 (てつ). It's hard and cold and not very comfortable when you sit on it. That's why you chose to keep it as an alternate and not as your everyday scooter. Imagine riding on your alternate 鉄 scooter. Feel the hard iron under your bum and the loud sounds it makes as you scoot down the street. I hope your normal scooter is fixed soon.
# | 鶏 | Chicken | けい ; とり, にわとり | Cleat + Husband + Bird | Your husband was wearing his cleats when he accidentally stepped on a bird. Luckily this particular bird is a chicken, and chickens are really durable! Picture the sad, stepped on chicken. It's angrily clucking and chasing your husband around your yard for what he did. The only way to stop the chicken from putting on your husband's cleats and stepping on him to death in revenge is to feed it the cake (けい) you were making. This cake was for your husband, but now he gets nothing. The chicken gets to eat all of the cake in front of him instead.
# | 瑞 | Congratulations | みず, しるし ; すい, ずい | King + Mountain + Rake | The king raked all the mountains down into flat land so he could see everyone in the kingdom from his castle windows. You should share your congratulations with him. Now, quick tell him this was a great idea. Imagine saying "Congratulations!" to a king who just ordered his servants to rake down all the pretty mountains in his kingdom. The moment you say "Congratulations!" you've already started to miss (みず) those beautiful mountains. But you can't let missing them ruin your congratulations! Don't let the king know! Imagine how hollow your congratulation sounds when you really miss those mountains. This king doesn't deserve your nice words.
# | 暁 | Dawn | あかつき, さと ; きょう, ぎょう | Sun + Gambler | Gamblers usually only see the sun at dawn. They gamble all day and through the night, and if they leave it's at the crack of dawn to get home, clean up, and then go back. I haven't known a gambler who's seen the sun ... well ever! Imagine being a gambler and seeing the bright dawn sun when you come out of the casino or pachinko parlor. It burns your eyes! Evil dawn, get back inside quick! If you're up at dawn you'll also see the あか (red) つき (moon). The あかつき only happens as the sun comes up at dawn so usually only gamblers see it. But if you get up early, you can see it too! Imagine getting up at dawn and seeing the あかつき in the sky near the sun. It's so beautiful!
# | 剖 | Divide | ぼう | Clown + Knife | A clown takes a knife and divides himself. First he divides himself into two pieces, then he's in four pieces, then... oh why won't he stop?! Instead of dying, the clown divides into slightly thinner clowns. The clown finally stops trying to divide himself, and you can't stand to look at all of him. You grab a bowling (ぼう) ball and bowl all of his divided parts over! The many clowns crash to the floor as the bowling ball plows through their... his(?) divided bodies. You can't bear to look anymore.
# | 凌 | Endure | しの ; りょう | Ice + Frostbite | If you touch ice for too long you'll get frostbite and that's a really hard thing to endure. A lot of people can't, and die. Then again, you managed to endure touching ice long enough to get frostbite in the first place, so maybe this is baby stuff for you. Imagine having to endure the pain of frostbite because you were a jerk who put his hand on ice for a few hours. The best people in the world at being able to endure the pain are the shinobi (しの) ninjas! They train by hanging out in frozen areas all the time and don't complain at all. Maybe if the pain gets to be too much you can go ask them for advice. Imagine if you were one of these cool Shinobi ninjas that could endure the extreme cold and pain of frostbite!
# | 藩 | Fiefdom | はん | Flowers + Tsunami + Number | You have to reach a certain number of flowers and tsunamis hits to become a legitimate fiefdom. At least in the old days. If you don't meet one of these conditions, like if you get hit by tsunamis all the time but you only have two or three flowers that will grow, you can't be your own fiefdom. Imagine being the person who has to check whether each fiefdom has enough flowers and tsunamis per year to keep their status. The most famous fiefdom checker is Han (はん) Solo. He takes his Millennium Falcon and swoops around checking for flowers and signs of past tsunamis and then he'll either say you can or cannot be your own fiefdom. Thanks Han Solo! Picture Han Solo flying around Japan checking to make sure all the fiefdoms are up to code.
# | 譜 | Genealogy, Score | ふ | Say + Line Up + Sun | If you say the lineup of your family members that have lived on this earth under the sun, you're really explaining your genealogy. This kanji has a second meaning too. It means score, as in a musical score or sheet music. So if your sheet music says the line up of chords, especially sunnny notes, that's the score of a song. Those sunny notes are loved by your ancestors. Say the line up of your family under the sun, then sing some sunny chords to match. You'll know your genealogy and a musical score! If you can't tell the difference between your genealogy and a musical score, you're a fool (ふ) and I can't help you. You aren't a fool, are you? You know the difference. Your family genealogy and a musical score aren't even close to being the same thing. Memorize these or everyone will think you're a fool.
# | 璃 | Glassy | り | King + Rocket | The king wants you to make a rocket that looks glassy. It won't be very stable, and it probably won't work, but making it glassy and pretty is the only way to make the king approve. Imagine a king who won't accept a rocket that isn't made of glassy material. He's not very smart... You take the glassy rocket and try to stuff some thin reeds (り) inside to support it. But because it's clear and glassy the king sees them at the last second. Picture the king admiring himself in the glassy surface and then his face contorts. He smashes his fist through the rocket and rips out the reeds. "REEDS AREN'T GLASSY!" he cries, and starts hitting you with them.
# | 淑 | Graceful | しゅく ; しと | Tsunami + Above + Small + Stool | You can only manage to avoid a tsunami by standing above it on a small stool if you are very graceful. If you aren't graceful enough the tsunami will knock you and the stool over and you'll be swept away like everyone else. Imagine being graceful enough to balance on a small stool above a raging tsunami! Sooo cool! No matter how graceful you are, the tsunami still shook (しゅく) the small stool. That's where your gracefulness came in. The stool shook, but you didn't. You balanced yourself and refused to go down. It doesn't matter how badly the stool shook, you stayed graceful and didn't fall!
# | 傑 | Greatness, Excellence | けつ ; すぐ | Leader + Dance + Tree | The leader does a dance on top of the tree to show his greatness to everyone around. If he dances all the way up there on top of the tree, then no one can deny his excellence! "Look upon your leader's greatness!" he shouts, doing a jig around on the branches. If you don't recognize the leader's greatness he will throw ketsup (けつ) all over you (it's a special mix of ketchup and catsup). And it's ketsup because it looks like blood. The blood he'll spill if you don't look up and clap at his great dancing. "Oh leader, your greatness is so... great!" you shout up at him. He's holding the ketsup bottle over your head and staring into your eyes as he dances in the tree. He isn't sure if he wants to dump it on you yet. He isn't sure if you really recognize his excellence.
# | 殻 | Husk, Shell | かく, こく, ばい ; から, がら | Samurai + Forehead + Table + Weapon | A samurai puts his forehead on the table next to his weapon. He is just a husk of his former self. This shell of a samurai has nothing left. He's just sitting there, he can't even pick up his weapon or raise his head anymore. The only way to bring a husk of a samurai back to life is to have a cock (かく) crow right in his ear. "Co co co co cooooock!" the cock screams, shocking the samurai back into his lifeless shell. You did it!
# | 瑠 | Lapis Lazuli | る, りゅう | King + Private + Sword + Rice Paddy | The king will send his men with swords into your private rice paddy if you come across lapis lazuli. Even though this is your private land, he wants that lapis lazuli to make some new crowns and thrones for himself. Plus he's the king, so he can do whatever he wants. If you've never taken an art history class (or played Minecraft) you may never have come across lapis lazuli, but think of it as a pretty, blue precious stone that people really, really liked in the olden days. Watch the king's swords digging in your private rice paddy and digging up huge chunks of lapis lazuli. This isn't fair, that lapis should belong to you. You run up and ask how this lapis lazuli thievery isn't illegal and one of the swordsmen just shouts, "Loophole (る)!" What? What loophole? What law says that the king gets to steal your stuff? Imagine reading through a giant text called "The Law" and looking for this loophole the king's men claim to have about taking your lapis lazuli. You can't find it... but maybe if you search just a bit longer...
# | 錠 | Lock | じょう | Gold + Roof + Correct | This is a gold roof, correct? Better put a lock on it, then. It's only natural that you'd want to put a lock on a gold roof so that nobody could steal it. The person who put the lock on the gold roof was none other than... Joe (じょう)?! How did Joe, a simple farmhand, get hold of such a valuable gold roof? Either way, the lock he’s put on it is incredibly tough, so there’s no way you could make off with his gold roof anyway.
# | 媒 | Mediator | ばい ; なこうど | Woman + Sweet + Tree | A sweet woman sits under a tree and works as a mediator. If you're having a fight with someone, bring them to the sweet woman under the tree and she'll mediate for the two of you. Problem solved! Thanks sweet lady! Imagine the sweet tree woman being a mediator for you and your arch rival. What she says fixes everything between you two! You go to pay the woman for being your mediator for you two but she just says, "Bye ばい)." You try to hand her some money and she stares into your eyes. "Bye." Oh... okay, bye then. Imagine her refusing to let you pay her for her mediator services and just saying "bye" over and over until you leave. Weird.
# | 濁 | Muddy, Impure | だく, じょく ; にご | Tsunami + Net + Prison + Insect | If a tsunami gets into a net that's imprisoning a bunch of insects, the insects are going to get all muddy. The net gets dragged along with the tsunami water and the insects can't escape, so they just get covered in the yucky stuff. Picture a net prison full of insects being dragged by a tsunami getting muddier and muddier. Poor buggles! Unfortunately for the insects, these muddy conditions have created the perfect habitat for ducks (だく). And muddy insects already imprisoned in a muddy net is a duck's favorite treat! Picture a bunch of muddy ducks munching on some muddy trapped insects, in some muddy leftover tsunami water.
# | 赦 | Pardon | しゃ | Red + Winter | If you spill something red on yourself in winter you should pardon yourself immediately and try to find something else to wear. It's very dangerous to wear red in winter, and even if it seems rude, make sure you pardon yourself right away and get that taken care of! Imagine spilling red wine or red paint down your shirt. Quickly pardon yourself and get changed now! If you don't pardon yourself fast enough the winter shaman (しゃ) will burst in and cast a spell on you, taking away all the clothes that have red on them! Now you have to pardon yourself for being naked! Imagine not pardoning yourself fast enough and having the winter shaman spirit away whatever you got red on. That's embarrassing.
# | 戯 | Play | ぎ, げ ; ざ, じゃ, たわむ | Tiger + Spikes + Drunkard | Throw a drunkard in a cage with a tiger and some spikes and the tiger will have the time of its life playing with them! Think of all the tiger play time possibilities! If you were the tiger how would you play with the drunkard? If you aren't the tiger, watching it play is a little like watching someone's head get cut off with a guillotine (ぎ). In fact, you don't want to watch it play at all anymore. What would you rather watch? A guillotine at work or a tiger playing like this?
# | 享 | Receive | きょう, こう ; う | Receive | The receive radical and receive kanji are exactly the same. Receive this nice, easy kanji with thanks! The best place to receive anything is in きょうと. The city is famous for the quality of everything they make, so if you’re in きょうと, keep your fingers crossed that you’ll receive something. Imagine being in きょうと and receiving something wonderful from a passerby in the street. What did you receive? How does it feel to receive something so great?
# | 嘱 | Request, Entrust | しょく ; しょく, たの | Mouth + Flag + Mantis | If you want to take a flag out of the mouth of a mantis you have to make a formal request first. Mantises don't like to just give things away, and they're kind of mean so if you try to steal the flag it will probably bite you. So make a formal, polite request if you want it. Imagine trying to request a flag from a scary mantis that has it sitting in it's mouth. Will it give it to you? Will it bite you? You'll have to wait and see. After you request the mantis give you its flag it shocks (しょく) you by actually spitting it out of its mouth at your feet. You didn't think your request would work, or even if the mantis understood human speech, but it shocked you by doing exactly what you asked! Imagine your shock at finding out the mantis not only understood your request, but agreed! This is great but also makes you wonder what other creatures can understand you...
# | 肖 | Resemblance | しょう ; あやか | Triceratops + Moon | You see a triceratops standing in front of a full moon and you can't help but see a really strong resemblance. The triceratops has that round frill thing behind its horns and it looks just like the round full moon. Who knew that a triceratops would resemble the moon! Look at the triceratops. Now look at the moon. See the resemblance? Uncanny, don't you think? The first person to see this resemblance was the Shougun (しょう). That's why he decided to put a triceratops head with the moon behind it on his mon (family crest). Now he's known as the full moon dinosaur shogun, and he's very famous. Imagine being the Shougun and seeing the resemblance between a triceratops and the moon for the first time. You'd put that on all your stuff too, if you were him.
# | 憤 | Resent | ふん ; いきどお | Soul + Cross + Flowers + Shellfish | You see a soul on a cross covered in flowers with shellfish at its feet and you suddenly resent them. It's not like you want to be the one up there on the cross, but so many people left flowers and shellfish for them. It should have been you... Picture the soul on the cross, flowers all around it and shellfish at its feet. Feel your resentment grow. You realize you resent them because it looks like they're having fun (ふん). You aren't having fun, and you wanna be! How dare they have fun when you aren't! You wanna have fun hanging out on a cross with flowers and all the shellfish you can eat. Your resentment grows and grows as you watch the soul having everything you suddenly want. Fun fact: when you see 賁 in a kanji, the reading is probably going to be ふん.
# | 朽 | Rot, Decay | きゅう ; く | Tree + Ground + Prison | A tree is stuck in a prison under the ground and it's starting to rot and decay. Trees can't live without sunlight, and it's too damp underground in a prison. The water gets all moldy and the tree will rot and die. You get close to the rotting tree and see some rotten cucumbers (きゅう) hanging from its branches. No! This poor cucumber tree, left in this ground prison to rot. There's nothing worse than eating a rotten cucumber.
# | 奔 | Run, Bustle | ほん ; はし | Big + Cross + Twenty | You're walking down the street when you see twenty big crosses lined up in front of you. Crosses creep you out and this is way too many for you to keep walking so you decide to run as fast as you can to get past them. Imagine trying to run down a street with twenty big crosses lining it. It's so scary that you keep running faster and faster as you go. You figure since you're already on the run that you might as well hone (ほん) your running skills while you make your way down this scary, cross lined street. Imagine distracting yourself from the scary crosses by honing your running skills while you do it.
# | 帆 | Sail | はん ; ほ | Towel + Table + Drop | You hoist your towel above your table, drop into the water and sail away. You turned the towel into an actual sail and you're balancing on top of the table, which is now a boat. Imagine sailing out into the open sea, drops of water hitting your face, as the towel sail catches the air and carries you away. As you sail off into the ocean you hear a familiar voice shout out, "Ahoy!" Han (はん) Solo calls. He's also got a towel sail, but it's on the Millennium Falcon, which is half-submerged in the water. You sail nervously past Han Solo who also seems to be sailing, though in worse shape than you. But he keeps throwing you finger guns so you figure it's best to just sail on and pretend this never happened.
# | 菅 | Sedge | すが ; かん, けん; すげ | Flowers + Roof + Bear | The flowers that grow on your roof that look like a sleeping bear is sedge. Sedge grow all over the world! You've probably seen them before, you just didn't know what they were called! Looks like a green sleeping bear bum, right? The next time you see a sedge bite into it. It tastes like sugar (すが)! Luckily, it don't taste like bear. Imagine biting into a sedge flower and tasting the yummy sugary taste. Mmmm.
# | 酌 | Serve, Scoop | しゃく ; く | Alcohol + Pool | Pour all of your alcohol in the pool to serve all your guests at once! They can all help themselves to as much or as little alcohol as they want! What a great idea! Imagine serving all of your guests their alcohol by dumping it all in the pool! Now jump in and drink all you want! As you serve your guests (and yourself) you look over and see Shaq (しゃく) also trying to serve them. And by serving I mean getting served because he's throwing them into the pool. Picture Shaq serving your guests by tossing them into your alcohol filled pool. Thanks, Shaq... I guess.
# | 慨 | Sigh | がい | Soul + Root + Fang | Deep in your soul, you feel like you want to pull your fangs out by the root, but instead you let out a loud sigh. You're one of the only people you know that has fangs, and it weighs heavily on your soul. Imagine all of the other people staring and pointing, the kids making fun of you, no one seeing you as equal. And just... sigh. Deep down, you want to get rid of your fangs, but you can't do it. You sigh again and say, "I wish I was just a normal guy (がい)." I swear the rest of me is a guy like the rest of you. *sigh* Now you're staring in the mirror at yourself. You sigh loudly and take out the pliers. You'll be a guy like everyone else. S-soon. As soon as you can muster up enough strength to stop sighing and rip these fangs out.
# | 椎 | Spine, Evergreen Beech | つい ; しい, う, つち | Tree + Turkey | This tree turkey has been sitting directly on your spine for weeks straight. The pain is starting to become unbearable, and it seems like no one wants to help you. Tree turkeys are absolutely huge, and this exceptionally large one has been sitting right on top of your spine for what feels like ages. Imagine the pain of a huge turkey pressing down on your spine for weeks, perhaps months. How are you still holding on?! Just as your spine seems to be getting used to the pressure, the tree turkey unleashes a cry: "TWEET (つい)!" To your horror, a flock of tree turkeys emerge from the trees. You desperately try to escape from the weight of the tree turkey still sitting on top of your spine, but to no avail. The only thing you can see is dozens of tree turkeys approaching to plant themselves firmly on top of your spine, screaming "TWEET, TWEET".
# | 窃 | Steal | せつ ; ぬす, ひそ | Hole + Seven + Sword | You see seven swords just sitting in a hole and so you decide to steal them. They were just left in that hole after all, it's not like anyone was using them. And even if they were, they'll never know you were the one to steal them, right? Imagine seeing seven swords just lying abandoned in a hole. Feel the urge to steal them all. Do it, do it! You steal the swords and realize they aren't just seven random swords, they're from the famous sword sets (せつ) they sell online. This particular set is from the Seven Samurai movie. Yes! What a great steal! Imagine your delight as you look up the different sword sets online and realize you happened to steal the best one!
# | 硫 | Sulfur, Sulphur | りゅう | Stone + Trash + River | There are stones that smell like trash in the river. You reach in and realize these rocks are made of sulfur. Even the flow of this water can't hide the stink of these sulfur rocks. If you haven't smelled sulfur before, it smells a bit like rotten eggs. Something that definitely belongs in the trash. You throw the sulfur rock as hard as you can, but it hits someone in the back of the head. Oh no, it's Ryu (りゅう) from Street Fighter. You try to apologize and explain that you just didn't want this stinky trash rock, I mean, sulfur rock near you. You didn't know he was there. Ryu looks down at you, holding the sulfurous rock in one hand. Then he uppercuts you with it! Shoryuken!
# | 亜 | Asia | あ ; つ | Asia | The kanji and the radical that look like this are exactly the same. They are both Asia. As long as you know the radical Asia, you know the kanji Asia. What's the first sound in Asia? It's A (あ). Nice and easy! A is for Asia!
# | 屯 | Barracks | とん | Barracks | The barracks radical and the barracks kanji are the same! Know your radicals, yo! Barracks are pretty big, so they weigh a ton (とん). And they probably take tons of materials to build. Imagine trying to lift some barracks. They weigh a ton! How are you supposed to do this? Why would you even try to lift something that obviously weighs a couple tons?!
# | 岬 | Cape | みさき ; こう | Mountain + Turtle Shell | You see a mountain in the shape of a turtle shell sticking out into the ocean. It's a cape! No, not the kind you wear, the geographical kind. When you're on land, most capes look like turtle shell mountains sticking out into the sea. Do you know any capes like that near where you live? Picture the turtle shell shaped cape. Feel the salty wind in your hair! You decide to walk along this cape because it looks like the perfect place to get rid of your old meat sack (みさき). It's starting to smell, but the ocean breeze from the cape pulls the meat sack out of your hands and off into the sky (then probably into the sea too). The next time you go to the cape, remember to bring your old, used meat sack. You can toss it right into the ocean and it won't bother you ever again! Just make sure no one sees you.
# | 鋳 | Cast, Casting | ちゅう ; い | Gold + Three + Slide + Measurement | Take three measurements of gold and slide them into a mold to make a cast! You'll have cast three gold swords, or goblets, or ducks. Just make sure you follow those directions, or your casting won't come out right. Imagine yourself carefully measuring out the three portions of gold and sliding them into your mold to make a cast of whatever you want. I wonder what it could be? You open the cast to reveal your gold statue of Chewbacca (ちゅう)! It's life-size and now you have three! Your new gold Chewbacca casts are going to guard the entrance to your house. Picture your majestic Chewbacca casts. Carefully set them outside your front door to guard you. This was a great idea!
# | 拙 | Clumsy, Unskillful | せつ ; つたな | Fingers + Exit | You have to use your fingers to make an exit because you're so clumsy. You can't seem to get the door to open, your hands just slip around on the knob uselessly. Instead, you take your fingers and stick them into the door frame, pulling the whole thing off the hinges so you can leave. Of course, you're too clumsy to do that right either, you accidentally threw the door backwards and hurt some people... After you make your clumsy mistake you realize that these doors come in sets (せつ). And now you have to try to open another door. And another door. So many sets of doors! Imagine trying to use your clumsy fingers all over the sets of doors. You keep falling over and hurting yourself. Why is it so hard to leave?!
# | 詠 | Compose, Recite | えい ; よ, うた | Say + Eternity | If you want to say how eternity sounds you have to compose a poem. Or an essay. Or a song. Recite those deep thoughts about eternity and impress everyone who hears it. Try to compose a poem about eternity right now. Just jot it down somewhere. You decide to compose a poem about an acorn (えい). The tiny acorn is the perfect vessel for you to say how eternity feels to you. Let me recite the acorn poem to you now: Acorns start small, Grow up big and tall, Spread their baby acorns for all, Live on for all eternity
# | 慶 | Congratulate | けい ; よろこ | Canopy + Helicopter + Barb + Heart + Winter | If a pilot manages to land under a canopy with a helicopter that's pierced with a sideways barb in the heart of winter you should congratulate them! People should always be congratulated for doing good things, and this is one of the best things you've ever heard of! Can you imagine how hard landing a helicopter in just one of these horrible conditions? Congratulate them! Congratulate the pilot with cake (けい)! Cake is always the appropriate celebratory food.
# | 酪 | Dairy | らく | Alcohol + Kiss | You can only give a kiss of alcohol to dairy. If you add anymore than a kiss the dairy will curdle and you won't be able to drink it anymore. Bleh. Imagine trying to give more than a kiss of alcohol to dairy and watch it bubble and curdle and get all gross and chunky. Dairy isn't kept with other drinks, it needs to be placed on a rack (らく). I hope you've been using your dairy rack to store your dairy. If you haven't you should get one right away! Look at all your dairy products: milk, yogurt, cheese, all of it sitting nicely on your dairy rack.
# | 篤 | Deliberate | とく ; あつ | Bamboo + Horse | If someone makes a bamboo horse, you know it's deliberate. You can't accidentally make an entire horse out of bamboo. Someone sat down and deliberately planned the entire horse out, collected the materials, and made it by hand. As you admire all the deliberate details in this bamboo horse, the ghost of Tokugawa (とく) Ieyasu appears before you! "I deliberately made this horse to show you how important being deliberate is. You should be absolutely certain and decisive about your decisions." Tokugawa Ieyasu then poofs out of existence and so does the bamboo horse.
# | 侮 | Despise | ぶ ; あなず, あなど | Leader + Every | Every leader will come to despise their followers. In the beginning everything is fine and dandy, but eventually the leader's followers will ask for more and more things, eventually ridiculous things, and the leader will really despise them for it. Imagine yourself as a leader who's come to despise every single one of their followers. Look down at them in disgust as they ask you to grant them all a pony. The more you despise them, the more booze (ぶ) you drink. This is not smart or healthy, but it's what this kind of hate does to people. This is not a healthy way to handle things! If you despise someone you should talk to them, don't turn to booze. Don't be like every leader that's come before you.
# | 堪 | Endure | こら, こた, た ; かん, たん | Dirt + Crab Trap | If there is dirt in a crab trap, it's a lot for the crabs to endure. Imagine a little crab getting stuck in a crab trap with dirt and other crabs. Endure the horror as long as you can, little friend. You decide to make the little crab that endured being stuck in a dirty crab trap your pet, and put a collar (こら) round its little neck. Imagine yourself putting a collar around the crab's neck, then adding a leash and taking your crab for a walk around your neighborhood.
# | 禍 | Evil, Misfortune | か ; わざわい | Spirit + Mustache | A spirit wearing two mustaches must be evil. Everyone knows a mustache makes you evil, but two? And on a spirit? Yup, definitely evil. Look at the evil spirit with two mustaches on its spirit face. Imagine its face in detail, especially those mustaches. You're watching the evil mustache spirit when it starts to float toward your car (か). And it's... hey! It's trashing your car! You knew this guy was evil! Imagine running around, flailing your arms, trying to get the spirit to stop ruining your car. But your hands go right through him and his two mustaches. You can't stop his evil doings.
# | 雌 | Female | めす, め, めん ; し | Stop + Spoon + Turkey | If you can stop a turkey by putting a spoon in its face you'll know it's a female turkey. A male turkey will peck the spoon out of your hand and run away. But a female turkey will wonder why you're putting a spoon there, stop, and look up at you wondering if you're okay. Picture the female turkey stopping when it sees you holding out a spoon. Why are you doing that human? it thinks. Are you sick? The female turkey then runs around making a mess (めす) of things trying to figure out what's wrong with you. She kicks around her hay, water bowl, and scratches at your pants, making more mess marks on them. But you don't move and she gets even more worried. Imagine watching a female turkey make a mess of her own cage because she thinks you need help. How sweet.
# | 睦 | Friendly | ぼく, もく ; むつ | Eye + Womb | If you see someone eyeing your womb you're probably going to be weirded out by how friendly they're acting. You only let people who are really, really close to you look at your womb. So if this guy is acting that friendly he should have introduced himself first. Imagine having someone you aren't friendly with trying to have a look at your womb. No thank you. This friendly guy comes up to you and start to introduce himself, "ぼく-" but you stop him. He's been getting way too friendly with your womb and you don't want to hear who he is. He can ぼく at someone else, you're out. Imagine only letting this guy start to introduce himself with ぼく before walking the heck outta there. Just because he was acting friendly doesn't mean he was actually your friend.
# | 胆 | Guts | たん ; きも | Moon + Dawn | If you stay up for so long that you get to watch the moon go down and the dawn come, then people will say you have serious guts. Staying up that late is really hard, and not everyone can do it. If you don't have the guts to stay up, you'll just fall asleep and never see the moon and the sun switch places in the sky. Imagine the guts you'd have to have to stay up for so long that you see the moon and the sun switch places! A lot of guts! You were outside for so long, proving you had guts, that you also got a sweet tan (たん) out of it! It's a really deep tan though, and you probably need more guts if you ever want to do all that again. Imagine having the guts to stay outside to watch the moon and the sun and then getting a really deep tan from it.
# | 擬 | Imitate | ぎ ; まが, もど | Fingers + Doubt | You try to use your fingers to cast doubt on people by using them to imitate each other. Right now you're using your fingers as finger puppets, imitating one of your friends to the others. Picture your angry friend standing up next to your fingers, shouting, "I'm the real me! That's just an imitation!" The rest of your friends look nervously at each other. They doubt this person is real now. Everyone thinks the friend you were trying to imitate is the imitation now and they have them in a guillotine (ぎ). You even doubt if they're an imitation or if your fingers are the imitation. Okay, so that's a lie, Your fingers are definitely imitating them, but you don't want to end up in the guillotine so you keep your mouth shut.
# | 梓 | Japanese Birch, Birch | あずさ ; し | Tree + Spicy | What kind of tree is spicy? A Japanese birch, or birch, obviously. There's nothing spicier than a Japanese birch! Imagine licking the trunk of a Japanese birch tree and feeling the heat on your tongue. You can only cut down a Japanese birch using a zoo saw (あずさ) because a regular saw can't handle how spicy these trees are. Imagine using a zoo saw to cut down a Japanese birch tree. What's a zoo saw? It's a saw that's used in zoos, to build all the animal enclosures. And to cut down spicy trees.
# | 漆 | Lacquer, Varnish | しつ ; うるし | Tsunami + Tree + Hat + Water | A tsunami hits a tree and your hat protects you from the water, but the hat itself is now covered in lacquer. You take it off and see that it's shiny and hard and protected. Picture your hat and all of the other things the tsunami + tree water touched. It's all been hardened with a thick coating of the lacquer. You decide to scoop up the rest of the lacquer water and use it on your furniture to protect it from your shih tzu (しつ). Now it can't bite or scratch or ruin any of your things anymore! Watch as your shih tzu tries to bite your now lacquered chair. It gets its teeth around the leg, but it's hard as a rock. The shih tzu starts sneezing and spitting, letting go. Looks like it tastes bad too. Perfect!
# | 閑 | Leisure | かん | Gate + Tree | You see a gate with a tree growing through it and it reminds you that you need more leisure time. You walk up to the gate tree and curl up under its branches. No one will bother you because the tree is blocking the gate from being used. Imagine spending your leisure time curled up under a tree that's growing through a gate. It's so cozy and secluded! As you leisurely nap, you hear a gruff voice, "Ah, you're done too, huh?" It's Genghis Khan (かん)! He's spending his leisure time relaxing under this abandoned gate just like you. But wait. Isn't Genghis Khan dead now? He winks at you, "Leisure time is for the dead." He smiles, and fades away, disappearing into the tree.
# | 卑 | Lowly, Base | ひ ; いや | Drop + Rice Paddy + Cross | You drop to the ground in a rice paddy, and then drop down in front of the cross you keep on you because you're trying to make yourself as lowly as you can in front of God. He said to lower yourself and this is the only way you can interpret that. Imagine dropping down in a rice paddy, then again in front of your cross. Be as lowly as you can make yourself. The only problem about being lowly is the heat (ひ). Everyone always told you that heat rises, but not here. The rice paddy is incredibly hot... unless oh no. Is that the heat of hell? You tried to make yourself lowly in front of God but this heat is probably a sign that you didn't do it well enough.
# | 姻 | Marry | いん | Woman + Mouth + Big | You meet a woman whose mouth is big and you instantly know this is the person you want to marry. When you think about the person you want to marry, picture their mouth wide in a big, beautiful smile, a wide-open laugh. That's the lady for you, alright! You marry this woman right away and you both go straight to an inn (いん) together! When you get to the inn all you do is make her laugh and smile so you can bask in her bright, big, mouth smiles.
# | 峠 | Mountain Pass, The Worst | とうげ | Mountain + Above + Below | If there are mountains above and below you, that means you're on a mountain pass. Imagine yourself walking along a mountain pass. Look up at the mountains above you, and down at the mountains below you. It's only on this type of mountain pass that you'll be able to find the rare and adorable Tokyo gecko (とうげ). These tiny little critters can only be found on the ridges going above and below the mountains in Tokyo. There are like six mountains in Tokyo, so the next time you're scaling the ridges keep your eyes open for the Tokyo gecko! Picture yourself hiking along a mountain pass in Tokyo and spotting a little Tokyo gecko run up and down on them. It's adorable and totally worth the climb.
# | 忌 | Mourning | き ; い | Oneself + Heart | If you only let oneself (yourself) into your heart, you'll end up mourning all of the loves and friendships you could have had but didn't let in. Picture yourself all alone. You never let anyone into your heart but yourself, and now you're mourning the life and friends you could have had. While you're in mourning, you feel a sharp pain in your crying eyes. A key (き) comes sliding out with your tears. You look around wildly, but you're still alone. Is this... the key of mourning? You try to push the key back into your body. Back into your eye, you even try to swallow it, but it comes back out. Finally you look down at your mourning heart and try the key there. It clicks. And opens.
# | 曹 | Official | そう, ぞう ; つかさ, ともがら, へや | Ground + Music + Sun | When underground music makes it out into the light of the sun (the public), it finally becomes official. Music isn't really real unless people hear it outside of those secret underground concerts. Think of all that music you listened to underground but not in the light of the sun. None of that was official music. None of it! Once the music is official, you'll feel it in your soul (そう). When you listen to it outside, under the bright sun, your soul gets to finally hear it too. The official music penetrates into your soul, instead of just your ears, and it's affecting everyone else's souls too! Oh no... wait that's too many people. This was your song! No, it's too popular now, stop your souls from liking it! Ahhh!
# | 吟 | Recital | ぎん | Mouth + Now | We want you to say things with your mouth right now because it's recital time! Go, perform please. What do you mean you didn't know the recital was right now? Well, tough luck. Recite! The recital is happening now. So open your mouth and start already! Here, if you are too afraid to start the recital now drink this gin (ぎん) to get your courage up. But once you're done drinking it the recital starts! Drink gin before all your recitals! It'll help!
# | 礁 | Reef | しょう | Stone + Turkey + Boil | The stone that looks like a turkey boiling underwater is just a reef. It may seem like there are a bunch of turkeys under there, but it's just the shape the reef takes. Though I guess if you're looking from above the water it really does look like a bunch of turkeys freaking out. The reef is the Shougun's (しょう) favorite place to be nowadays. He sits next to the water, and stares down into it for hours. You don't know if the Shougun likes the reef because he likes the beauty of the ocean, or if he's fantasizing about turkeys boiling. He's a... complex man.
# | 沙 | Sand | さ, しゃ ; すな, よなげる | Tsunami + Few | People think tsunamis are only made of water but they have a few pieces of sand in there too. There's actually more sand in the ocean than most people think. And tsunamis can't just have water and sharks in them. A few grains of sand will always slip in. Imagine how those few grains of sand feel to get swept up into a tsunami. They didn't ask for this. They just wanted to stay at the bottom of the sea. How do I know there's sand in there? Because I saw (さ) them! I saw the sand, stop doubting me!
# | 蔑 | Scorn, Neglect | べつ ; さげす | Flowers + Net + Drunkard + Slide + Drop | In a flowers net a drunkard slides down like a drop. There they stay, an icon of scorn and neglect. It's embarrassing to fall down a flowers net while drunk. Despite that, there you are. Everyone who goes by scorns you or neglects you. Every time you receive scorn and neglect from someone walking by, you say in your drunken voice: "I bets (べつ) you I can get up if I want. I bets you I can." You try to get up, but no matter how much you "bets you" someone that you can get up, you slide back down the flowers net. "I bets you I can do it next time," you say.
# | 汰 | Select | た, たい ; おご, にご, よな | Tsunami + Fat | If the tsunami that's heading for your village is fat you should try to select a different one to hit instead. You don't want to select fat tsunamis because they do more damage. Imagine being at the tsunami store and selecting the least fat one there. If you're having trouble selecting which one is the least fat just check to see which tsunamis are eating tacos (た). Only fat tsunamis will be eating them, so just look for one without a taco. While you select the tsunami that's right for you. Keep an eye out for those fat taco-eating ones. And then stay away from them!
# | 紡 | Spinning, Spin | ぼう ; つむ | Thread + Direction | Move thread in the right direction and you'll end up spinning it into yarn. Then you can spin that yarn into a sweater or a scarf with your favorite half tofu half fugu mascot on it! Imagine spinning thread into whatever your imagination wants. While you're spinning you realize that you've always wanted to make your own bowling (ぼう) ball. And bowling ball cover. And bowling ball shoes. Picture all of these thread-made bowling items. You're a really big bowling fan, huh?
# | 遷 | Transition | せん ; うつ, みやこがえ | Scooter + Helicopter + Big + Oneself | Going from a scooter to a helicopter that's big even for yourself (oneself), is a huge transition. It's an upward transition, so that's nice, but it's still going to take you a long time to get used to using a big helicopter instead of a scooter. You decide one transition isn't enough, so you transition to a centaur (せん) too. Now you're a big half horse-half human creature and you'll fit in the big helicopter better. A centaur is just a human halfway between transitioning into a horse, so it isn't even that hard to do!
# | 甚 | Very, Great | じん ; はなは | Crab Trap | Making a mnemonic for a crab trap is VERY hard. So hard that I couldn't come up with one. But it's very possible that one of you will! How hard is it to come up with a good mnemonic for a crab trap? Very hard! You know what else is very something? Jeans (じん). Jeans are very expensive. Jeans are very tight. Jeans are very popular. Jeans are very a lot of things. How many sentences can you make with very and jeans? More than me I hope.
# | 浪 | Wander | ろう | Tsunami + Good | The tsunami that is good. This fabled creature has never been seen, but you wander the lands in search of it. You wander everywhere, with no particular direction in mind. As you wander, you come across a clue. It is fish roe (ろう). Wherever the good tsunami goes, it leaves delicious fish roe behind. That's what makes it a good tsunami.
# | 崇 | Worship, Revere | すう ; あが | Mountain + Roof + Jackhammer | Under the mountain's roof are people using jackhammers to worship the gods. The noise from their jackhammering echos up through the mountain and up toward the sky where the gods live. As long as each person uses their own jackhammer, the sound will be loud enough to reach them. Man your own jackhammer! (And worship the gods.) Unfortunately, the people who live around here can also hear you and the others worship in the mountain and they're going to sue (すう) you for the noise. You try to argue that you can't sue someone for the way they choose to worship, but they say they're all deaf now, all the animals have gone, and no one sleeps anymore because of the shaking. Yikes, they might have a case!
# | 煩 | Annoy, Annoying | はん, ぼん ; うるさ, わずら | Fire + Geoduck | Set fire to a geoduck if you want to annoy it. Fire won't kill a geoduck, but have you ever been on fire? It's not really pleasant. So you'll just annoy it pretty badly. Imagine how annoyed you would be if someone set YOU on fire for no reason. The geoduck has every reason to find you annoying, dude. You know who loves annoying geoducks more than anyone else in the universe? Han (はん) Solo! If you watch Star Wars closely enough you can see him shooting geoducks with his blaster and catching them on fire for fun. Think how annoying it must be to be a geoduck when Han Solo comes around.
# | 款 | Article, Sincerity | かん | Samurai + Jackhammer + Lack | "For the  samurai, it is a jackhammer that they will lack." That is the latest article of the law written about samurai, hundreds of years after katana were taken away. This article was written with great sincerity by the government. By writing up new articles and laws they keep taking things away from samurai. First the katana, now jackhammers? The one who wrote these articles with such sincerity was Genghis Khan (かん). Genghis Khan knew that samurai were a threat to his kingdom, so he took away their secondary weapon, the jackhammer.
# | 蛮 | Barbarian | ばん ; えびす | Red + Insect | Red insects only bite barbarians. If a red insect bites you then you have barbarian blood! Waaay back a barbarian was your aunt or uncle or great great grand pappy! But the insects kinda hurt, so it's a bit of a downside I guess. If you see a red insect, follow it and see who it bites. Then you'll know that person is at least part barbarian. Following the insect, it leads you to a red insect demonstration, all shouting: "Ban (ばん) the barbarians! Ban the barbarians!". How sad. You thought they just liked barbarian blood, but turns out they're actually anti-barbarian activists. That's why they've been biting barbarians all along.
# | 廉 | Bargain | れん | Canopy + Mona Lisa | Under this canopy is the Mona Lisa, being sold for cheap, what a great bargain! You never know what kind of bargains you'll find when you look under a canopy at the wares of a traveling salesperson. Look really closely at this Mona Lisa. Hmm, I don't remember her having a mustache, but I guess it is a little dark under this canopy. You want to make sure this bargain is as good as it seems, so you ask if you can get this Mona Lisa as a rental (れん). Just for now, so you can make sure it's real before you buy it at that low, low price. The salesperson pulls the painting away and mutters, "Ah, yes, well this is such a good bargain already! And besides... it's already a rental, you see. From the, uh, the Louvre. So you really should just take this bargain and buy it!"
# | 劾 | Censure | がい | Slice + Power | If you want to slice the power out of someone just censure them. Then they'll be cut down in front of everyone and they'll feel super embarrassed. It's the best way to slice them down without actually cutting them and getting arrested. Picture yourself as you slice the power out of that senator you hate by censuring them in front of the world! Once you censure them and they lose all their power, they'll be just another guy (がい). A normal guy with everything lost to him. HAHAHA! Look at that guy now. What a loser.
# | 某 | Certain, One, That Person | ぼう ; それがし, なにがし | Sweet + Tree | If you think a tree looks sweet you have to be certain before you bite into it. Trees are really hard, and usually pretty bitter (believe me) so if you don't want a mouthful of broken teeth, sap, and sadness, you really need to be sure it's the one before you start munching. Which tree do you think is sweet? That one? Or that one? Are you absolutely certain? I hope you are! If you really want to be certain, and not just guess, take out your bowling (ぼう) ball and roll it as hard as you can into the tree. If its the right one it will let out a sweet smell, if it's not the tree will punch you. So now let me ask you again, are you certain, or would you like to try the bowling ball test?
# | 矯 | Correct, Straighten | きょう ; た | Arrow + Heaven + Mouth + Mustache | An arrow is shot from heaven and hits right between your mouth and your mustache to correct your crooked smile. It also straightens your teeth and the crooked cut of your mustache too. Who told you that looked good? Well, it doesn't matter. The heaven arrow corrected it for you. An arrow from heaven will correct all your problems! These heavenly correcting arrows actually come from きょうと. They hate seeing people with crooked mustaches, so they shoot them out on the regular. It just looks like they're coming from heaven because they fall out of the sky. If you want someone to correct your teeth or mustache, just wander around きょうと, staring up at the sky. Then when you see an arrow, run for it and try to catch it with your face!
# | 痢 | Diarrhea, Diarrhoea | り | Sick + Grain + Knife | You ate some grains that made you so sick it feels like a knife is stabbing in your guts and all your poop is falling out. This is called diarrhea. Everyone's had diarrhea before, so you should know this feeling by now. Imagine back to the last time you ate something bad and it gave you diarrhea. It felt like someone was sticking you with a knife, didn't it? The diarrhea is here. It's happening. And it smells so awful you can't breathe. You have to take some hollow reeds (り) and shove them up your nose and out the bathroom door so you can get some fresh air in you. You learned this reed technique from a group of ninjas who use them to breathe underwater, and you never thought you'd use them like this.
# | 逝 | Die | せい ; い, ゆ | Scooter + Fingers + Axe | If you ride a scooter with your fingers around an axe you're going to die. I mean, probably. There's a 99% chance you'll die. Picture someone else riding a scooter with an axe in their fingertips. That's so dangerous! One bump, one bad turn, and that axe slips and they'll die. You slip. The axe collides with your face. You die. But... wait! There's a bright, blue glow and suddenly you're un-dead. You watch in slow motion as your holy blue saber (せい) brings you back to life and takes the hit from the axe instead. Wait, no! It shatters. Your holy blue saber died for you. It saved you from certain death and now it died. After all you've been through together. All 60 levels. This is the end.
# | 漸 | Gradually, Steadily | ようや, やや ; ぜん | Tsunami + Car + Axe | You're stuck in your car during a tsunami and all you have to break out is an axe. You whack and whack but you're only gradually making progress. You thought an axe would be an easy way to get out of a car but it's not working like you'd planned! You have to make more than gradual progress if you don't want to drown. Imagine gradually denting your car door open with an axe while you're trapped in a tsunami. This isn't fast enough! As you're gradually making your door open with the axe you look up to see the New York Yankees floating by on top of their bus. You yell, "YO YANKEES (ようや) to get their attention. They see your gradual progress and start throwing balls at your car to help dent it open. YO YANKEES! Gradually yelling that saved your life!
# | 升 | Grid, Measure | ます ; しょう | Slide + Twenty | You see twenty slides lined up like a grid. You don't know who put them here, but they almost look like the grid paper you do your maths homework in. But who would use a slide as grid paper? Picture twenty slides laid out in a grid system. As you stare at the slide grid you see some people come out and overhear them talk about their mass maths (ます) tournament happening later today. Oohhh it IS a giant grid. And they're going to use it to do maths later! You can make a grid out of anything if you set your mind to it. And you can do math anywhere as long as you have some grid paper!
# | 婿 | Groom | むこ ; せい | Woman + Coat Rack + Moon | Have you heard the tale of the woman who fell in love with a coat rack during a full moon and made him her groom? It's a true story! She even had a wedding ceremony and had more coat racks sitting in the grooms side. The moon will make people do craaaazy things. Imagine what it would be like to fall in love with a coat rack and make it YOUR groom. The best part of the story is that the only coat on the coat rack groom was a moose coat (むこ). So the groom was a really skinny stick with a giant moose hair coat hanging down it. Could you love a moose coat enough to marry it?
# | 匿 | Hide | とく ; かくま | Cage + Flowers + Right | This cage is full of flowers on the right side to hide the fact that you're in here too. You don't really want to be in this cage, but there were some things you didn't want to do today, so you hid. Luckily these flowers block the right side of the cage and hide you completely. As you hide the ghost of Tokugawa (とく) Ieyasu appears before you, inside the cage! His arms are crossed and he's shaking his head at you. "Do you think I managed to become the first shougun of Japan by hiding?" "N-no?" you respond. "Wrong! I hid all the time. There's nothing wrong with hiding, you're doing a great job." he says, and disappears.
# | 謹 | Humble, Discreet | きん ; つつし | Say + Boot | You say something to a boot when you want to be humble. You're down there because you're bowing in front of the person you're humbling yourself before. Because of that, your face is really close to their boots and you're speaking directly at them, instead of at the person's face, so it's more discreet. Picture yourself trying to be humble. You're down on the ground talking to a pair of boots. You don't dare raise your eyes past that. You're being humble like this because those boots belong to the King (きん) of England. You can't just say whatever you want at eye level to a king. He'll have your head chopped off for insolence, or worse! Imagine saying something to the King. Get low down on the ground to be as humble as you can. Whisper into the King's boots. Lick them if you have to.
# | 藍 | Indigo | あい ; らん | Flowers + Oversee | Flowers that you oversee are always indigo. You aren't sure why though... Imagine if every flower you were supposed to oversee was indigo. Indigo everywhere! Wait, maybe these flowers are only indigo because there is something wrong with your eyes (あい)! Maybe your eyes are indigo and that's why it's all you see! Can you imagine having indigo-only seeing eyes? I can. Because of this awesome mnemonic.
# | 桟 | Jetty, Pier | さん, せん ; かけはし | Tree + Bar | You grab a tree so you can reach the bar in the ocean by making a jetty or a pier to it. Now you can walk out on the jetty and go get drinks without needing a boat or getting wet. Imagine laying your tree into the water to make your own jetty extending out to the floating bar in the ocean. Innovative! You also made this jetty so it would be easier for Santa-san (さん) to dock his sleigh. Oh, you didn't know? His sleigh is more of a speed boat now, and he wants a refreshing drink after delivering all those presents. You get extra presents for making him a jetty, so win-win. Picture Santa-san coming in from the ocean on his speedboat and docking on your jetty so he can go relax in the bar. Imagine the mountain of presents he lays on the jetty for you as thanks.
# | 殉 | Martyr | じゅん | Yakuza + Prison + Sun | Put a yakuza member in a prison on the sun and he'll become a martyr to all the other yakuza still on earth. He died up there so the rest of them wouldn't have to. Because they definitely aren't getting caught now, if the penalty is a burning death in the new sun prison. Imagine all the yakuza coming out into the streets and holding up signs saying this guy was a martyr. A hero to all who do bad stuff in bad groups but don't wanna get caught. The only reason he ended up a martyr in the first place is because they put him up there in June (じゅん). Everyone knows the sun is way too hot for humans in June. It's summer! Really, it's not the fault of the people who put him there that he's become a martyr. It's the month of June. PUNISH JUNE! PUT JUNE IN THE SUN PRISON! (Is what I assume those yakuza are shouting.)
# | 坑 | Pit, Hole | こう | Dirt + Lid + Table | In the dirt, you find a lid under the table. You lift it to reveal a deep pit. Why is there a hole under your table? You pull away the lid and crawl inside. There is a ladder that takes you deep into the pit. When you reach the bottom of the pit, you hear someone scuffling around and the sounds of chains. You light a match and inch closer to see what it is. In the darkness, you see こういち, starved and chained in a pit under your table. After you've nursed こういち back to health, he explains that he was put here by a clone こういち–the very same こういち who became emperor. He tells you he can think of around 61-70 different pain levels of revenge, but also that "it probably wouldn't be worth it, so let's just hang out for a while instead. Ooh, are those cookies?"
# | 罷 | Quit, Leave | ひ ; や | Net + Ability | You're in a net but you have the ability to quit playing along and leave at any time. Your captors think they have you trapped, but you know you can leave whenever you feel like it. You don't know if you want to quit this charade until you feel an uncomfortable heat (ひ). You look down and the net you're in is being hung above a large fire. As the heat spreads you decide to leave. You hop out of the net and watch the shock spread in your captors eyes.
# | 妄 | Reckless | もう, ぼう ; みだ | Death + Woman | If the death of a woman occurs it's because she was being reckless. People don't just die out of nowhere! They have to have done something super crazy to cause it. Right? Yes... right. Picture yourself watching the news about a woman's death. The word RECKLESS?! pops up on your screen and keeps flashing. Huh, she must have been, you think to yourself. As you watch the news about this reckless woman you find out that she died from mowing (もう) her lawn. You're not sure how, but now you really believe that she had to be doing it really recklessly to die doing it. Imagine what reckless thing that woman had to have done to die while mowing the lawn. Eww.
# | 漣 | Ripples | れん ; さざなみ | Tsunami + Scooter + Car | As the tsunami hits your scooter and your car, it alters the wave, creating ripples. They're hard to see because a tsunami is pretty big, but your scooter and car do create ripples in the water as it goes past. Ripples come off of your scooter and car from when they were hit by a tsunami. More importantly, those things were rentals (れん), so ripples or not, it doesn't matter if they were hit by a tsunami. As you watch the ripples come off your car / scooter, be sure to imagine the relief you'd feel if you knew they were rentals and not something owned by you.
# | 藻 | Seaweed | そう ; も | Flowers + Tsunami + Syrup | The flowers that wash up on shore in tsunamis that we make into syrup is seaweed. Okay, so it's more like soup or tea than syrup, but you can make them both out of seaweed. Seaweed is the flower of the sea! Seaweed is true soul (そう) food. Which means it's good for your soul. Didn't you ever read those books about chicken soup being good for your soul? Well that was a lie. Miso soup with seaweed is what's really good for your soul. Feed your soul with seaweed and it will thank you. Promise! 3
# | 泌 | Secrete | ひ, ひつ | Tsunami + Certain | Tsunami's have a certain tendency to secrete things as they go back out to sea. When they bash themselves onto the land they just throw a bunch of sea water around, but there are only certain things that they'll secrete when they're leaving. Certain tsunami secretions are dangerous. Can you think of any? Most tsunami's secrete heat (ひ). It takes a lot of energy for a tsunami to crash onto the land so the water is really really hot, and it has to secrete that heat as it's going back out to sea. The next time someone asks you what does a tsunami secrete? You'll say heat!
# | 唄 | Shamisen Song | うた ; ばい | Mouth + Shellfish | Use your mouth to sing and a shellfish to stroke your shamisen, and you'll be performing a shamisen song just like that! Yes, it's that easy. Just go find a shell, open your mouth, and you'll be singing one too in no time! Imagine using your mouth to sing and a shell to play the shamisen to perform your shamisen song! A shamisen song is just an 歌 (うた) but with a shamisen. They're still songs so they're said the exact same way! A shamisen song is a song, yay!
# | 畔 | Shore | はん ; あぜ, くろ, ほとり | Rice Paddy + Half | Half of a rice paddy is always on the shore. Japan is surrounded by water, after all. So it only makes sense that half of every rice paddy is right next to the ocean shore, right? Picture a rice paddy. Half of it is trailing off into the shore. Hear the seagulls. Feel the ocean breeze! You decide to walk along this shore when you see Han (はん) Solo lounging in the sand. He's waving for you to join him! You get to lie on the shore with Han!! Imagine lying on the shore with Han Solo. Enjoying a cool drink. Smelling the fragrance of the rice paddy behind you. Yeah, this is the life!
# | 倹 | Thrifty, Frugal | けん ; つづまやか, つま | Leader + Squid | The leader squid tells all of its squid people to be thrifty. Imagine the leader squid giving a speech about how you shouldn't buy new things, and how you should live with a roommate to save money. Every squid yen counts! Who is a thrifty squid? Ken (けん) the samurai's squid buddy, who gets carried around in a bucket and never pays rent. Ken's squid is always shaking his head at Ken the samurai's obsession with wearing all silk. He should visit Thrifty Threads, the second hand shop, and get some cotton clothes that would do the job just fine. Hint: Whenever there's a squid, remember that Ken (けん) the samurai is nearby.
# | 拷 | Torture | ごう | Fingers + Coffin + Beggar | You put your fingers in the coffin to tickle the beggar inside. What you're doing is a new form of torture. First, you put them in a coffin to make them think they're going to die. Then you tickle them with your fingers. There is no greater psychological + physical torture than this. The beggar you will coffin tickle torture is none other than old Grandpa ごういち. He is a frail old man, and doesn't like to be tickled. He keeps screaming: "STOP THIS TICKLE TORTURE. I CAN'T TAKE IT, JUST BURY ME."
# | 醜 | Ugly | しゅう ; しこ, みにく | Alcohol + Demon | Give alcohol to a demon and you'll see how ugly it really is. Demons need to concentrate to keep their disguises going. Even if it looked pretty when you met it, like super handsome, give it a few drinks and its facade will slide off and reveal its super gross demon face. Picture the drunk demon as its pretty face drips off revealing the ugly crap piled underneath. The ugly demon is drunk and taking off his shoes (しゅう) and swinging them around his head. And, oh no, he's drinking more alcohol out of the shoes. The demon drinking alcohol out of its nasty shoes is the ugliest scene you've ever seen.
# | 冥 | Underworld | めい, みょう | Forehead + Sun + Lid + Fins | Your forehead is in the sun, and you start seeing those creatures with lids for heads and  fins for feet again. Where on earth did they come from? They must have come from the underworld. Nothing like that exists in this life. Imagine the heat of the sun on your forehead as you watch these horrible creatures with lid-heads and fin-feet. There's no doubt that these are creatures from the underworld. You get out of the sun as fast as you can. The sun is unusually hot for the month of May (めい), which must be why those underworld creatures are running around. You make a mental note to always avoid the sun in May.
# | 渓 | Valley | けい ; たに, たにがわ | Tsunami + Cleat + Husband | The tsunami swept away one of the cleats your husband just bought and creates an entire valley with it. Watch as the tsunami rakes your husband's cleat across the mountain, carving a valley and an easier path for itself. Nature is brutal. When the water clears, you and your husband go to the valley to look for the cleat and instead you find a bunch of cake (けい)! Maybe this is the tsunami's way of saying, "Thanks for letting me steal your cleat so I could make this valley shortcut." Imagine yourself eating cake with your husband in this newly formed valley. You both agree that this should be called Cake Valley!
# | 寡 | Widow | か | Roof + Geoduck + Ground + Sword | Under your own roof, a geoduck jumps out of the ground with a sword and stabs your husband/wife/marriage partner to death. Now you're a widow. Imagine the geoduck laughing and screaming, "Now you're a widow! Now you're a widow!" flailing the sword around. It's awful. You may be a widow, but that doesn't make you weak. You run outside, jump into your car (か), and run your entire house and the geoduck over. It's just you and your car now, living the widow life, driving on into the sunset and forgetting your past.
# | 慕 | Yearn For, Adore | ぼ ; した | Greenhouse + Small + Drop | You're walking in a greenhouse when you see a small drop of water fall and it makes you yearn for the person you adore. You haven't seen them in so long. But something about being in this greenhouse and seeing that tiny water droplet made your heart burst with longing. Imagine how it feels to yearn for someone else when you see the small water drop. Imagine how your heart feels. As you yearn for that person from your past, you look back at the drop and see... Bobo (ぼ) the clown?! Uhg. Apparently Bobo dropped that small drop of water. Now you yearn for being somewhere Bobo is not.
